Voting Results

This report:  Sun  2 Oct 05 (4835 - 4839)
Last report:  Sat  6 Aug 05 (4830 - 4834)
(All times given in UTC)

Start of voting period:  Mon 19 Sep 03:00:22
   End of voting period:  Mon 26 Sep 03:00:22

Proposal  Title                    Author(s)  F/A/P  VI/AI  Quorum  Result
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
4835 (D)  Move your ors            Goethe     6/0/0   U/1    6/5    Adopted
4836 (D)  Speaker Reforms v2.0     Goethe     3/1/3   3/2    7/5    Adopted
4837 (D)  Kudononsuch              Goethe     4/0/2   U/2    6/5    Adopted
4838 (D)  New game in town         Goethe     5/0/1   U/1    6/5    Adopted
4839 (D)  Odds and Ends            Goethe     5/0/1   U/1    6/5    Adopted

                4835  4836  4837  4838  4839

Eris             F     P     P     F     F
Goethe           F     F     F     F     F
Manu             F     F     F     F     F
Maud             F     P     F     F     F
Murphy           F     P     P     P     P
root             F     F     F     F     F
Quazie                 A

FOR              6     3     4     5     5
AGAINST          0     1     0     0     0
PRESENT          0     3     2     1     1

Voting Index    *U*    3    *U*   *U*   *U*
Adoption Index   1     2     2     1     1

Voters           6     7     6     6     6
Quorum           5     5     5     5     5

Text of Adopted Proposals
-------------------------

Proposal 4835 by Goethe, AI=1, Democratic
Move your ors


Proposal: Move your ors

Amend Rule 698 by replacing:
                        A player who is inactive, unready, or is
           ineligible to judge CFJs.
with:
                        A player who is inactive or unready is
           ineligible to judge CFJs.

and by replacing:
           (1) all ready, active, non-barred, players become
with:
           (1) all ready, active, non-barred players become

and by replacing:
               ready, active, barred, players, other than
with:
               ready, active, barred players, other than

and by replacing:
               active, players, other than the caller
with:
               active players, other than the caller


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4836 by Goethe, AI=2, Democratic
Speaker Reforms v2.0


Speaker Reforms v2.0
by Goethe and Maud

[
v2.0 1. adds many wording changes suggested by Maud.
      2. removes chamber fees in anticipation of removing fees.
      3. added Speaker's RUBBERSTAMP to lower quorum on ordinary
         proposals (fun!)

v1.0 rearranges a little, adds debate-o-matic back to the deck.

v0.1
1.  Tidies up chambers.  Makes Ordinary the default again.  Gives
     Speaker ability to flip chambers for free.
2.  New Veto, operating through quorum failure.
3.  Agoran Decisions allow Conclaves to be simplified a bit.
4.  The Asenion solution may be broken if there's already a Pope at
     the time of a win.  This fixes that (and condenses Church and
     State a little).
5.  Tainting is removed.
]

Amend Rule 1933 (A Proposal's Chamber) to read:

       Chamber is a stuck proposal switch with values ordinary and
       democratic.  The default chamber for a proposal with an adoption
       index of at least 2 is democratic.

       An ordinary proposal with an adoption index of two or greater is
       stalled.  Rules to the contrary notwithstanding, a stalled
       proposal is undistributable, and if a proposal is distributed
       that was stalled at the time of distribution, its chamber shall
       immediately and automatically be set to democratic.


Amend Rule 2019 (The Speaker's Veto) to read:

       The Speaker may veto an Ordinary Proposal in its voting period
       by announcement.  Whenever a proposal is vetoed, its quorum is
       set to the current number of eligible voters on that proposal
       plus one, other rules governing quorum notwithstanding.

       As soon as possible after a vetoed proposal fails quorum, the
       Assessor shall a copy of that proposal to the Proposal Pool.
       When e does so, that copy shall become distributable and
       democratic, and its adoption index shall be increased by one.

       The Speaker may Rubberstamp an Ordinary Proposal in its voting
       period by announcement.  Quorum for a rubberstamped ordinary
       proposal is three, other rules governing quorum nonwithstanding.


Amend Rule 402 (Church and State) to read:

       A cardinal is an active, ready player who is neither the current
       Speaker nor the Associate Director of Personnel.

       When a cardinal becomes a pope, any previous pope immediately
       ceases being a pope.  Whenever a pope is not a cardinal, e
       immediately ceases being a pope.

       For seven days after a cardinal wins the game with no other
       players simultaneously winning, that cardinal may announce that
       e becomes a pope.  Upon this announcement, that player becomes a
       pope, so please treat em right good forever.

       A notice of papal succession is a notice published by the
       Associate Director of Personnel, that declares that a specified
       player is a pope, and is valid if the named player is indeed a
       pope.  Upon publication of a valid notice of papal succession,
       the current Speaker ceases to be Speaker, the pope becomes the
       new Speaker, and the pope ceases to be a pope.


Amend Rule 786 (Default Procedure for Conclaves) to read:

       When the rules require that a conclave be convened and no
       competing conclave is currently convened, then as soon as
       possible, the Associate Director of Personnel (ADoP) shall
       convene a conclave by announcement, specifying the collection of
       qualified cardinals.  A cardinal is qualified for a conclave
       unless the rules specify otherwise.

       The announcement is ineffective if the ADoP is not required to
       convene a conclave or eir announcement does not list all and
       only the cardinals qualified for that conclave.  However, if
       errors are not announced until after 7 days after the conclave
       concludes, the results shall stand.

       The convening of a conclave initiates an Agoran Decision to
       determine the Pope, a decision in which quorum is zero, the
       voting period is 7 days, all Players are eligible voters, all
       qualified cardinals are valid options as long as they remain
       qualified cardinals, and the ADoP has the privilege of resolving
       ties as for elections.

       The ADoP's announcement of the cardinal chosen by Agora makes
       that cardinal the pope and concludes the conclave.

       If no cardinal may be legally chosen by Agora, the ADoP shall so
       announce, and the conclave concludes as a cliffhanger.  If a
       conclave has not concluded within a fortnight from the time it
       was convened, any player may announce that it is inconclusive
       and thus conclude it as a cliffhanger.  When an conclave
       concludes as a cliffhanger, this canon calls for a consecutive
       conclave to be convened to calculate the correct cardinal.

       If the office of ADoP is ever vacant, or the identity of its
       holder cannot be determined with reasonable certainty, then the
       first player who announces that e convenes a conclave, with eir
       announcement adhering to the conditions for the ADoP's
       announcement, shall then be permitted and required to perform
       the actions that would have been required of the ADoP for that
       conclave.

Amend Rule 1791 by removing the phrase "who is not Tainted"
Amend Rule 1661 by removing the phrase "who is not Tainted"

Repeal Rule 1647 (The Asenion Solution)
Repeal Rule 1658 (The Speaker we do Taint)

Add the following card definition to the Twopower Cardbook:

       * Caption:    Debate-o-Matic
         Frequency:  Common
         Elements:   None
         Exploit: Indicate an undistributed proposal and a legal
         chamber for that proposal.  The chamber of the indicated
         proposal is set to the indicated chamber.

The quota for Debate-o-Matic is hereby set to 10.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4837 by Goethe, AI=2, Democratic
Kudononsuch


Proposal: Kudononsuch

Amend Rule 2069 by removing the following text:

       (e) A nonsite gambler whose hand size is smaller than the
           maximum hand size, plus the number of offices e holds, may
           draw a card for a fee equal to the number of times during
           the current month e has previously drawn a card in this
           manner.

       (f) When a gambler draws a card, e gains a pending draw.  As
           soon as possible afterward, the Deckmastor shall deal a card
           to that gambler.  When e does so, the draw is no longer
           pending.

and by replacing:

                             A gambler's hand size is the size of this
           collection, plus one for each pending draw for that gambler.

with:

                             A gambler's hand size is the size of this
           collection, plus one for each free pending draw for that
           gambler.


Create the following Rule, entitled "Satisfying draws":

       When a gambler draws a card as specified by the Rules, e gains a
       Pending Draw.

       Encumbrance is a stuck switch for pending draws, with values
       Free and Heavy.  Drawing a [Encumbrance value] card is a synonym
       for gaining a pending draw with the indicated encumbrance.

       As soon as possible after a gambler draws a card, the Deckmastor
       shall satisfy the draw by dealing a card to the gambler with the
       pending draw, but only if the draw is Satisfiable.  A draw is
       satisfiable unless defined otherwise.

       A heavy pending draw is not satisfiable as long as the gambler
       with the draw has a hand size equal to or greater than eir
       defined maximum hand size.  If a gambler has both heavy and free
       pending draws, the Deckmastor must satisfy all satisfiable heavy
       draws before satisfying any free draws for that gambler.

       If the Rules state that a gambler loses a pending draw, than
       that draw is considered satisfied without the dealing of a card,
       whether or not it is satisfiable.  E shall first lose all free
       draws before losing any heavy draws.  If e has no draws, the
       Deckmastor shall discard a random card from that gambler's hand.
       If e has no cards, then the deckmastor shall satisfy the next
       pending draw e gains without dealing a card.

       A satisfied draw is no longer pending.


Amend Rule 2080 (Cards for Proposals) by renaming it "Basic Draws" and
amending it to read:

       The maximum hand size for a Player is defined as the maximum
       hand size in the Deckmastor's Budget plus the number of Offices
       (including the Speakership) that the Player holds.

       Any Player may draw up to three heavy cards in a single month by
       announcement.  If a Player draws a card without specifying the
       explicit circumstances allowing the draw, it shall be considered
       an attempt to draw one of these heavy cards.

       Any Player may draw one free card in a single month, by noting
       it is eir free draw for the month.

       Any Player may draw one heavy card for each Proposal e proposes
       that is adopted, by noting the Proposal's number.


AMEND RULE 2049 (Ephemera) to read:

       Players may be permitted or required by the Rules to grant Boons
       or Albatrosses to other Players.  If so, these awards are
       performed by public announcement.  The Herald shall note the
       granting of all such awards.

       A Player who gains a Boon is considered to have drawn a free
       card for that boon.  A Player who gains an Albatross loses a
       pending draw.


AMEND RULE 2089 (Gardner Library) by replacing:

       A player (hereafter the Borrower) may check out a specified card
       from the Library by paying a Fee for the Library's upkeep.  The
       fee is 2 Kudos for Students and 1 Kudo for Faculty Members.  The
       card is reserved and may not be checked out by any player until
       it is dealt to the Library again by the Deckmastor.

with:

       A player (hereafter the Borrower) may check out a specified card
       from the Library by announcement, which must satisfy a number of
       satisfiable pending draws that e, in fact, possesses.  The
       number is 2 pending draws for Students and 1 pending draw for
       Faculty Members.  The card is reserved and may not be checked
       out by any player until it is dealt to the Library again by the
       Deckmastor.


Amend Rule 2075 (Winning Hands) by replacing:

       Exactly one week after a true announcement, the Flux of all
       Gamblers except the Deck shall become frozen.

with:

       Exactly one week after a true announcement, the Flux of all
       Gamblers except the Deck shall become frozen, and all heavy
       pending draws shall be deemed satisfied.

REPEAL RULE 2051 (Tabla Rasa)
REPEAL RULE 2096 (Ephemeral Time Limits)
REPEAL RULE 2047 (Kudos)
REPEAL RULE 2048 (Enlightenment)
REPEAL RULE 1941 (Fees)
REPEAL RULE 2018 (Expunging Blots)

[Kudo card deletions in upcoming proposal]


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4838 by Goethe, AI=1, Democratic
New game in town


Proposal:  New game in town

Amend Rule 2114 (Card Definitions) by replacing:

               and can define an Element by specifying its name and
       description.  Neither classes of cards nor Elements may be
       otherwise defined.

with:

               and can define an Element or Scoring Instruction by
       specifying its name and description.  Neither classes of cards
       Elements, nor Scoring Instructions may be otherwise defined.


Amend Rule 2075 (Winning Hands) by replacing:

       The Deckmastor's Budget shall contain between one and five
       Winning Hands, each of which is a list of cards with a hand size
       at least two greater than the Maximum Hand Size.

       If a Gambler's Hand is identical to a winning hand at any
       particular moment, any Gambler has 72 hours from that moment to
       announce that a Gambler holds or has held a winning hand.

with:

       The Scoring Instructions contained in cardbooks, interpreted
       collectively, may define a nonsite gambler as holding a winning
       hand at a particular moment.  If so, any Gambler has 72 hours
       from that moment to announce that a Gambler holds or has held a
       winning hand.


Amend Rule 2104 (Contreras Card Labs) by appending the following text:

       Any Player may add, delete, or amend a Scoring Instruction in
       the Blueprints Cardbook, with M support and without N
       Objections, where M is greater than or equal to N at the time
       the change is performed, and N is at least 1.


Add the following Scoring instructions to the Onepower Cardbook, with
each numbered item being a seperate instruction:

       0.  Each scoring instructions shall be indexed with a unique
       integer, which if unspecified will be one greater than the
       highest index at the time of its creation.  The score of each
       hand is a complex number, which is 0 if otherwise undefined.

       1.  The score of hands will be calculated by applying the lowest
       indexed instruction to every hand simultaneously, followed by
       the next highest instruction and so forth until all instructions
       have been applied.

       9999.  A winning hand has a score magnitude greater than 250 and
       greater than the score magnitude of any other nonsite gambler's
       hand.


Add the following Scoring Instruction to the Blueprints cardbook:

       10.  A single card adds N to the score of its hand, where N is
       determined by the first letter of its caption, with 'A' worth 1,
       'B' worth 2, [...], 'Z' worth 26.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4839 by Goethe, AI=1, Democratic
Odds and Ends


Proposal:  Odds and Ends

[Just a couple odds and ends].


Repeal Rule 1989 (Prime Executors).
    [Holdover from economics days really, other rules specify who
     is responsible for what without this].


Amend Rule 1727 (Happy Birthday) by replacing:

       BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that Agora's Birthday is defined to be
       the entire day of June 30, GMT +1200, of each year;

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that, as soon as possible after the end
       of Agora's Birthday, the Herald shall award the boon of
       celebration to each Player who, during Agora's Birthday,
       publicly recognized Agora's Birthday;

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Herald may select one Contract,
       in existence on Agora's Birthday, which has as its purpose
       encouraging the celebration of Agora's Birthday.  Within the
       month following Agora's Birthday, that Contract may award its
       Members the Patent Title Nth Anniversary Ribbon, where N is the
       number of years of Agora's existence;

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Courts shall be closed on
       Agora's Birthday; that is, the Clerk of the Courts shall not
       publish any Calls For Judgement, Judgements, notices of Appeals,
       Decisions of Appeals Boards, or Opinions, on Agora's Birthday;
       nor shall any Player submit to the Clerk of the Courts a Call
       For Judgement, notice of ineligibility to Judge, Judgement, call
       for Appeal, or Appellate Decision, on Agora's Birthday; nor
       shall any Player submit an Application to Submit an Opinion on
       Agora's Birthday; however, if any of the above do take place on
       Agora's Birthday, in violation of this Rule, this Rule does not
       deprive them of their usual effects.

with:

       BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that Agora's Birthday is defined to be
       the entire day of June 30, GMT +1200, of each year, and as soon
       as possible after the end of Agora's Birthday, the Herald shall
       award the boon of celebration to each Player who, during Agora's
       Birthday, publicly recognizes this Grand Event.


[Why bother to close the courts for a day?  And also, that contest
hasn't been used since it was created.  The best part of the birthday
is just saying happy birthday!]
