Voting Results (Corrected)

Corrected Report:  Sun 10 Oct 04
Original Report:  Tue 21 Sep 04
(All times are in GMT)

Start of Voting Period:  Mon 13 Sep 03:12:55
  End of Voting Period:  Mon 20 Sep 03:12:55

O = Ordinary        d = Disinterested   s = Sane         + = Positive Ad
D = Democratic      u = Urgent                           - = Negative Ad

Number    Title                         Author    AI   Flags     Result
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4614      No Point Anymore              Goethe    2    D         Adopted

               4614

Eris             A
Goethe          2F
Murphy          2F
OscarMeyr       F+A
Riail           2F

[Increasing Voting Potential is broken, so Goethe's VPDP
 was 2 rather than 4.  E cast eir votes one at a time, so
 the first two were definitely effective.  A good thing,
 too, because otherwise this would have failed quorum.]

FOR              7
AGAINST          2
Abstain          0
Present          0

Voting Index     3.5
Adoption Index   2

Voters           5
Quorum (D:14/3)  5

Text of Adopted Proposals
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4614 by Goethe, AI=2, Democratic
No Point Anymore


Proto: No Point Anymore

// 0.1 Start with the new Rule for Winning.
// 1.0 changed rewards to make a win slightly more worthwhile

Create the following Rule entitled "Hand Flux" with Power-2:

    Flux is a stuck switch for Gamblers with states Free
    and Frozen.  Rules to the contrary nonwithstanding,
    a Gambler with frozen flux may not play, discard, or
    transfer cards from eir hand, nor may the Deckmastor
    satisfy pending draws for that hand.

    The Deck's flux shall always be free, rules to the
    contrary nonwithstanding.

Create the following Rule entitled "Winning Hands"
    The Deckmastor's Budget shall contain between one and
    three Winning Hands, each of which is a list of cards
    with a hand size at least two greater than the Maximum
    Hand Size.

    If a Gambler's Hand is identical to a winning hand at
    any particular moment, any Gambler has 72 hours from
    that moment to announce that a Gambler holds or has
    held a winning hand.

    If the announcement is false, the Deckmastor shall,
    as soon as possible, transfer 1 card at random from
    the announcing Gambler's Hand to the Deck.

    If the announcement is true, the holding Gambler Wins
    the Game, and is awarded the boon of Pokerface and the
    defined regular Patent Title Champion.

    Exactly one week after a true announcement, the Flux
    of all Gamblers except the Deck shall become frozen.
    The Deckmastor shall transfer random cards from the
    hands of each frozen gambler to the deck, until each
    frozen gambler has either (a) a hand size equal to or
    less than the Minimum hand size or (b) no cards.  Then,
    the Deckmaster shall deal cards to the winner up to the
    maximum hand size.  When these tasks have been peformed,
    the Flux of every Gambler shall become free.

    If no one has won the game in the last six months, then
    any Gambler may announce a Skunk, which shall trigger
    the effects of a true announcement of a win above,
    except that no boon shall be awarded nor shall extra
    winner's be dealt.

The following winning hands are added to the Deckmastor's Budget:
 Three Trios: (Distrub-u-Matic, Absolv-o-Matic, Debate-o-Matic)x3
 Dead Man's Hand:  Dud, Dud, Dud, Dud, Dud, Dud, Dud

Amend Rule 2068 (The Deckmastor) by replacing the text:
     The Deckmastor shall have a budget containing the Maximum Hand
     Size, which is a positive integer between 3 and 10. In the
     absence of a budget, the Maximum Hand Size shall be 5.
 with:
     The Deckmastor shall have a budget containing the Maximum Hand
     Size and the Minimum Hand Size, each of which is a positive
     integer between 2 and 10, with the Minimum being less than
     the Maximum. In the absence of a budget, the Maximum Hand Size
     shall be 5 and the Minimum Hand Size shall be 2.

The Minimum Hand Size is hereby set to 2.

//Now we remove the Old

//First let's not cheat anyone
When this Proposal takes effect, the team with the most points
shall be awarded an amount of points equal to the Team Points Goal,
and each member of that team shall be awarded the boon of a Daffodil,
and the captain (if any) shall be awarded the Patent Title Admiral.

//Then the destruction occurs
Repeal Rule 1928 (The Scorekeepor)
Repeal Rule 2055 (The Scorekeepor's Budget)
Repeal Rule 1929 (Points)
Repeal Rule 2041 (Teams)
Repeal Rule 2053 (Team Points, Team Scores)
Repeal Rule 2042 (Team Wins)
Repeal Rule 2043 (New Player Team Assignment)
Repeal Rule 2062 (Team Captains)
Repeal Rule 2016 (Contested Proposals)
Repeal Rule 2013 (Champion's Contests)

Amend Rule 1922 (Defined Regular Patent Titles) by removing the
text:
     "(e)  Admiral, to be awarded to a Team Captain when eir Team
          achieves a Team Win."

Amend Rule 1963 (Eligible Shareholders)
               by removing: "(3) e has fewer than zero points;"

               and by replacing "(4)" with "(3)"

               and by replacing "(5)" with "(4)"

Amend Rule 1835 (Standing Down) by removing the text:
                  "For the purposes of Rules on awarding Points,
     that Election shall not be considered a contested Election."

Amend Rule 1505 (Standard Classes of Crimes and Infractions)
     by removing the text: " and a loss of 2*N Points"

     and by removing the text: ", and a Notice of Award of the
     Points penalty"

     and by removing the text: "In the case of a vacated Sentencing
     Order, the lost Points are to be Awarded back to the penalized
     entity, provided that the game has not been Won between the
     execution of the Sentencing Order and its vacation."

Amend Rule 2070 (Card Powerz) by removing the text:
     * Bleed [X], where X is a non-negative integer: At the beginning
       of each week, the Holder of this card loses X Points.

Amend Rule 1932 (Shareholders and the Corporation)
   by removing the text "Bleed [2],"
                    and "Bleed [4],"
                    and "Bleed [6],"

Amend Rule 2067 (Cards in Play) by removing the text:
     * Caption: Boost-o-Matic
       Elements: Budgeted
       Exploit: Increase any one Team's Team Points by 5.
       Exploit: Increase any one Team's Team Points by 10 for a Fee
         of 1 Kudo.

Amend Rule 2071 by removing the text:
     * Caption: ZOT!
       Quota: 1
       Elements: Handed [3]
       Exploit: For a Fee of X Kudos, an entity of your choice loses
         (X times 10) Points. If this would cause that entity to have
         fewer than zero Points, e shall instead have zero Points.

  and by removing the text:
     * Caption: Point Mine
       Quota: 1
       Elements: Persistent
       Exploit: So long as you have not done so already during the
         current week, you may gain 1 Point.

   and by removing the text:
     * Caption: Dud Fusion
       Quota: 1
       Elements: Bleed [2]
       Exploit: You may discard X Dud Cards to gain X times 20
         Points.

