Voting Results

This report:  Sat 31 Dec 05 (4846       )
Last report:  Sat 31 Dec 05 (4845       )
(All times given in UTC)

Start of voting period:  Tue 13 Dec 15:36:52
   End of voting period:  Tue 20 Dec 15:36:52

Proposal  Title                    Author(s)  F/A/P  VI/AI  Quorum  Result
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
4846 (O)  Pragmatize hand limits   Goethe    13/0/0   U/1    6/5    Adopted

                4846

Eris            2F
Goethe          4F
Manu             F
Maud             F
OscarMeyr       4F
root             F

FOR             13
AGAINST          0
PRESENT          0

Voting Index    *U*
Adoption Index   1

Voters           6
Quorum           5

Text of Adopted Proposals
-------------------------

Proposal 4846 by Goethe, AI=1, Ordinary
Pragmatize hand limits


Proposal:  Pragmatize hand limits

[Turns hand limits into a play-and-discard model.  You can draw 3
cards/month+bonuses regardless of handsize, but every month your
handsize is reduced to max.  You can do it yourself or if you don't,
the deckmastor will do it for you at random.]

Repeal Rule 2074 (Hand Flux)

Amend Rule 2069 (Card Actions) by removing the following text:

               , plus one for each free pending draw for that
           gambler


Amend Rule 2080 (Basic Draws) to read:

       Any Player may draw up to three cards in a single month by
       announcement.

       Any Player may draw one card for each Proposal e proposes that
       is adopted, by noting the Proposal's number.


Amend Rule 2120 (Satisfying Draws) to read:

       When a gambler draws a card as specified by the Rules, e gains a
       Pending Draw.

       As soon as possible after a gambler draws a card, the Deckmastor
       shall satisfy the draw by dealing a card to the gambler with the
       pending draw, but only if the draw is Satisfiable.  A draw is
       satisfiable unless defined otherwise.

       If the Rules state that a gambler loses a pending draw, than
       that draw is considered satisfied without the dealing of a card,
       whether or not it is satisfiable.  If e has no draws, the
       Deckmastor shall discard a random card from that gambler's hand.
       If e has no cards, then the deckmastor shall satisfy the next
       pending draw e gains without dealing a card.

       A satisfied draw is no longer pending.


Amend Rule 2075 (Winning Hands) to read:

       The Scoring Instructions contained in cardbooks, interpreted
       collectively, may define a nonsite gambler as holding a winning
       hand at a particular moment.  If so, any Gambler has 72 hours
       from that moment to announce that a Gambler holds or has held a
       winning hand.

       If the announcement is false, the Deckmastor shall, as soon as
       possible, transfer 1 card at random from the announcing
       Gambler's Hand to the Deck.

       If the announcement is true, the holding Gambler Wins the Game,
       and is awarded the boon of Pokerface and the defined regular
       Patent Title Champion.  All Players' hands become subject to a
       Hand Reduction to the Minimum Hand Size.  After the winner's
       hand is so reduced, e gains a number of pending draws equal to
       the Maximum Hand Size.

       If no true announcement of a winning hand or a Skunk has been
       made in the last six months, then any Gambler may announce a
       Skunk, which shall trigger the effects of a true announcement of
       a win above, except that no boon shall be awarded nor extra
       winner's cards dealt.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Amend Rule 2083 (Win Resolution) by changing its title to
"Hand Reductions" and amending to read:

       The Rules may declare that a nonsite Gambler's hand is subject
       to a Hand Reduction.  A particular hand reduction must have a
       maximum hand size associated with it; if none is defined, the
       Maximum Hand Size in the Deckmastor's budget is used.

       As soon as possible after a requirement for a reduction arises,
       the Deckmastor shall:

         (i) Satisfy all satisfiable pending draws for that gambler and
             announce a pending hand reduction;

        (ii) Wait at least four days, during which e may not satisfy
             pending draws for that gambler;

       (iii) Discard cards at random from that Gambler's hand until eir
             hand size is equal to or less than maximum associated with
             the reduction.

        (iv) If a gambler loses no cards during a reduction, and has
             not played, transferred or discarded a card since the last
             reduction, the Deckmastor shall discard one card at random
             from the gambler's hand (if it has any cards).

       If a dispute on the gambler's hand size or pending draws is
       raised and not resolved prior to (iii), above, the Deckmastor
       shall not perform (iii) for that hand until the dispute is
       resolved.  If no dispute is raised prior to (iii) being
       performed, then the reduction shall stand regardless of
       subsequent disputes.  However, a Judge in such a dispute may
       Order the Deckmastor to perform further card transfers to
       resolve such disputes.

       If the Deckmastor knowingly reduces a hand incorrectly, e
       commits the Class 4 Crime of Card Thievery.

       If more than one hand reduction is pending for the same hand,
       then the Deckmastor need only perform the reduction for the
       reduction with the lowest associated maximum; this shall satisfy
       all pending reductions.

       At the beginning of each month, each Player's hand becomes
       subject to a Hand Reduction to the maximum hand size in the
       Deckmastor's Budget plus the number of Offices (including the
       Speakership) that e holds.



The Maximum Hand Size is hereby set to 5.  (Since it only limits
things once a month, it should be lower to encourage card turnover).
