Voting Results

This Report:  Mon 20 Jun 2005 (Proposal  4810)
Last Report:  Mon 20 Jun 2005 (Proposals 4805 - 4809)
(All times given in UTC)

Start of voting period: Mon 13 Jun 19:52:28 2005
  End of voting period: Mon 20 Jun 19:52:28 2005

O = Ordinary                            s = Sane
D = Democratic      u = Urgent          t = Takeover

Number    Title                         Author    AI   Flags    Result
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
4810      The Well-Ordered Repeals v1.0 Goethe    2    D        Adopted      

                4810  

Goethe            F  
Manu              F  
Maud              F  
OscarMeyr         P  
Sherlock          F  
root              F  

FOR               5  
AGAINST           0  
ABSTAIN           0  
Present           1  

Voting Index      U  
Adoption Index    2  

Voters            6  
Quorum (D:9/3)    3  

Text of Adopted Proposals
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4810 by Goethe, AI=2, Democratic
The Well-Ordered Repeals v1.0


Proposal: The Well-Ordered Repeals v1.0

Only changes since v0.1:
   Minor wording suggested by Maud

This proposal:
   1.  Eliminates administrative and private orders.  The legal
       remedies for non-judicial personages are now solely timing
       orders (a new and VERY LIMITED type of order), or motioning
       a judge to execute an order, or of course proposal.
   2.  Tightens and condenses a lot of the orders language.
   3.  Doesn't touch legislative orders.
   4.  Leaves judicial orders for the Next Great Reform (other than
       the aforementioned language condensing).


Amend Rule 1793 ("Orders") to read:

      An Order is a command, executed by a player and directed to some
      entity requiring that entity to perform exactly one action, or
      to refrain from performing one or more actions.

      An Order may be directed to the holder of an official position
      in eir capacity in that official position, and if the position
      changes hands before the Order is satisfied, the duty to abide
      by the Order automatically attaches to the new holder of that
      position.

      An Order may also be directed at a prior order so as to affect
      the prior order's operation, as the Rules permit.

      All Orders executed in the manner prescribed by the Rules for
      their class are presumed valid and enforceable until proven
      otherwise by CFJ.  No Order may act to prevent or hinder its own
      appeal in any way.  Knowingly and willfully executing invalid
      Orders constitutes the Class 10 Crime of Abuse of Authority.


Amend Rule 1794 ("Classes of Orders") to read:

      Each Order is of exactly one of the following classes.  If an
      Order could be of more than one of these classes, then it is of
      the first class that matches.

        (a) A Legislative Order is an Order executed as part of the
            effect of the adoption of a Proposal.

        (b) A Sentencing Order is an Order executed to impose the
            penalty for a Crime.

        (c) A Ticketing Order is an Order executed to impose the
            penalty for an Infraction.

        (d) An Appellate Order is an Order executed by a Board of
            Appeals.

        (e) A Judicial Order is an Order executed by a Judge in the
            course of performing eir duties or privileges as Judge.

        (f) A Timing Order is an Order which may be executed by any
            person and directed at any entity.  A timing order is
            valid if and only if it orders the entity to perform, as
            soon as possible, a duty specifically required of em by
            the Rules that does not otherwise have a specified timing
            requirement, or for which the otherwise specified timing
            requirement will have been exceeded as soon as possible
            after the Order is executed.

      No other types of Orders are valid.


Amend Rule 1795 ("Timing Requirements of Orders") to read:

      An Order may specify the time limit for the performance of an
      ordered action.  If a time limit is less than 72 hours after the
      Order takes effect, the time limit shall be 72 hours.  If no
      time limit is specified, time limit shall be as soon as possible
      after the Order takes effect.

      If an Order which commands the performance of an action is
      directed to an Office or other position of authority, and the
      holder of that position of authority changes after the Order
      takes effect, but before the Order is satisfied, and the time
      limit is before, or less than 72 hours after, the current holder
      of the position came to hold that position, then the current
      holder shall have as soon as possible to satisfy that order.

      Other Rules may establish other times by which orders must be
      performed.  The noncompliance of an order with this Rule does
      not deprive that order of all effect, but instead modifies the
      timing requirements of the order.


Change the title of Rule 1795 to "Order Timing".

Amend Rule 1799 ("Amendment, Stay, and Vacation of Orders") to read:

      The effect of staying an Order is to temporarily prevent the
      stayed Order from having any effect.

      A stay may be ordered for a fixed time, in which case the stay
      expires at the time specified; or for an indefinite time, in
      which case the stay will not expire.  If no specification is
      made in the Order to Stay, the stay shall be indefinite.

      When the stay expires or is vacated, the previously stayed order
      again has effect as if it had been originally executed at the
      moment the stay ceases to be effective.  However, if at the time
      the staying Order expires or otherwise ceases to have effect,
      the stayed Order has been vacated or is subject to another
      staying Order, it does not regain effect.

      The effect of vacating an Order is to permanently deny the
      vacated Order from having any effect.  Vacating an Order to
      Vacate reinstates the ability of the vacated Order to have
      effect, as of the moment the Order to Vacate is itself vacated.

      Any Order may always be stayed or vacated by the Player (or, in
      the case of Appellate Orders, Board of Appeal) who executed it.
      Certain classes of Orders may be stayed or vacated in other
      circumstances as well, but only as the Rules allow.

Rename Rule 1799 to "Stay and Vacation of Orders".

Amend Rule 1810 ("Noncompliance with Orders") to read:

      An Order requiring an entity to perform an action is satisfied
      when that entity performs that action.  Other Rules may define
      other ways for Orders to be satisfied.  Except when otherwise
      specified, a single action can result in the satisfaction of at
      most one Order.  If an action would satisfy more than one Order,
      and no other specification is made, the Action satisfies the
      oldest Order which it would satisfy.

      If an Order requires an entity to perform an action prior to a
      specified time, and the Order is not satisfied prior to that
      time specified in the Order commits the Class 4 Crime of
      Contempt by Inaction.

      Any entity who, while required by an Order to refrain from
      performing an action, performs the proscribed action while the
      Order is in effect commits the Class 4 Crime of Contempt by
      Action.

      This Rule shall have no application with respect to any Order
      which has been adjudicated to be invalid.

Rename Rule 1810 to "Satisfying Orders".

Amend Rule 1803 ("Judicial and Sentencing Orders") to read:

      Judicial Orders and Sentencing Orders are executed by being sent
      to the Clerk of the Courts, but do not take effect until their
      publication by the Clerk of the Courts.  The Clerk of the Courts
      shall publish each Judicial Order and Sentencing Order as soon
      as possible after receiving it from the Judge who executed it.

      Any Player may formally request a Judge issue any Judicial Order
      by filing a motion requesting that Order.  If granted, the Judge
      shall issue the Order requested.


Amend Rule 1804 ("Appeal of Judicial and Sentencing Orders") to read:

      As soon as possible after a Judicial Order or Sentencing Order
      is Appealed, the Clerk of the Courts shall stay it.  If the
      Appeal is sustained, then the Board of Appeals shall vacate this
      stay as soon as possible.  If the Appeal is sustained, then the
      Board of Appeals shall vacate the stayed Order as soon as
      possible.

      In the Appeal of a Judicial Order or Sentencing Order, the Board
      of Appeals shall consider whether the Order was properly and
      validly executed.


Amend Rule 1509 ("Orders to Compel") to read:

      Upon a judicial finding that a Player has failed to perform a
      duty required of em by the Rules, the Judge so finding shall
      execute an Order, requiring that Player to perform that duty as
      soon as possible.  Such an Order is known as an Order to Compel.

      If the duty in question arises because the Player in question
      holds a specific Office or other position of official
      responsibility, the Order shall be directed to that Office or
      position.  If the Player holding that Office fails to perform
      the duty in question as ordered, the Judge shall Order that that
      Player be removed from Office or position.


Amend Rule 1830 ("No Compulsion of Judges") to read:

      Any Order to Compel directed to a Judge, or requiring the
      performance of a duty required of a Player because that Player
      is a Judge, is invalid, unless that Order is a valid Appellate
      Order.

      Any CFJ alleging that a Judgement is incorrect, or that a Judge
      has failed to perform a judicial duty, lacks standing.  Such a
      claim should instead be pursued via Appeal.


REPEAL Rule 1796 ("Validity of Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1797 ("Abuse of Authority")
REPEAL Rule 1798 ("I Was Only Obeying Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1800 ("Amendment of Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1801 ("Stay of Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1802 ("Vacation of Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1808 ("Administrative and Private Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1809 ("Appeal of Administrative and Private Orders")
REPEAL Rule 1811 ("Contempt by Action")
REPEAL Rule 1829 ("Refusal of Duty by the Speaker")
REPEAL Rule 1828 ("Motions Requesting Judicial Orders")

----------------------------------------------------------------------

-- 
Assessor C. Maud Image (Michael Slone)
I understand this.  That frightens me.
                -- Murphy, in agora-discussion
