Voting Results

This Report:  Mon 20 Jun 2005 (Proposals 4811 - 4815)
Last Report:  Mon 20 Jun 2005 (Proposal  4810)
(All times given in UTC)

Start of voting period: Mon 13 Jun 19:52:28 2005
  End of voting period: Mon 20 Jun 19:52:28 2005

O = Ordinary                            s = Sane
D = Democratic      u = Urgent          t = Takeover

Number    Title                         Author    AI   Flags    Result
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
4811      The Cobalt Repeals            Maud      3    D        Adopted      
4812      How Low Can You Go?           Sherlock  1    O        Adopted      
4813      How Lower Can You Go          Sherlock  1    O        Adopted      
4814      How Lowest Can You Go         Sherlock  1    O        Adopted      
4815      Really, 200 Rules is Enough   Sherlock  1    O        Adopted      

                4811  4812  4813  4814  4815  

Goethe            F    3F    3F    3F    3F  
Manu              F     F     F     A     A  
Maud              F                          
OscarMeyr         P                          
Sherlock          F    2F    2F    2F    2F  
root              F                          

FOR               5     6     6     5     5  
AGAINST           0     0     0     1     1  
ABSTAIN           0     0     0     0     0  
Present           1     0     0     0     0  

Voting Index      U     U     U     5     5  
Adoption Index    3     1     1     1     1  

Voters            6     3     3     3     3  
Quorum (D:9/3)    3     3     3     3     3  

Text of Adopted Proposals
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4811 by Maud, AI=3, Democratic
The Cobalt Repeals


      Upon reading this, a most curious sensation overcame me.
                -- Sherlock, in agora-discussion

Goethe is a coauthor of this proposal.

Section 0.  Agoran decisions.

Change the power of rule 693 (Prescribed Voting Period) to 3.
Change the title of rule 693 to "Agoran Decisions", and amend it to
read:

      When the rules calls for an Agoran decision to be made, the
      decisionmaking process takes place in the following three
      stages:

      (a) Initiation of the decision: The decisionmaking process
          begins when a person authorized to initiate the decision
          announces the matter to be decided, including any additional
          information the rules require to be in that announcement.

      (b) Voting of the people: Immediately thereafter, the voting
          period for the decision begins.  During the voting period,
          eligible voters may vote on the matter, as described
          elsewhere.

      (c) Resolution of the decision: After the voting period for the
          decision ends, any person authorized by the rules to resolve
          the decision may announce that the matter has been decided,
          specifying the option selected by Agora.

Change the title of rule 107 (Rule Changes Must Be Written Down) to
"Initiating Agoran Decisions", and amend it to read:

      An Agoran decision is initiated when a person authorized to
      initiate it publishes a valid notice which sets forth the intent
      to initiate the decision.  To be valid, this notice must contain
      the following information:

      (a) The matter to be decided (for example, "the election for
          Scorekeepor" or "the adoption of proposal 4781").

      (b) A description of the class of eligible voters sufficient to
          enable public agreement on which persons are eligible.  In
          particular, an explicit list of the eligible voters is
          always sufficient for this purpose.

      (c) The identity of the vote collector.

      (d) Any additional information required by the rules for this
          announcement.

      The publication of such a valid notice initiates the voting
      period for the decision.  By default, the voting period lasts
      for seven days.  This rule takes precedence over any rule which
      would require a voting period for some decision to be shorter
      than seven days.

Change the power of rule 683 (Voting on Proposals) to 3.
Change the title of rule 683 to "Voting on Agoran Decisions", and
amend it to read:

      An eligible voter on a particular Agoran decision submits a
      ballot to the vote collector by publishing a valid notice
      indicating which one of the available options e selects.  To be
      valid, the ballot must satisfy the following conditions:

      (a) The ballot is submitted by an eligible voter during the
          voting period for the decision.

      (b) The ballot clearly identifies the matter to be decided.

      (c) The ballot clearly identifies the option selected by the
          voter.

      (d) The voter has not publicly retracted the ballot during the
          voting period.

      The strength of an option is the number of valid ballots
      selecting that option.

      Other rules may place further constraints on the validity of
      ballots.  This rule takes precedence over any rule that would
      loosen the constraints specified by this rule.

Change the power of rule 208 (End of the Voting Period) to 3.
Change the title of rule 208 to "Resolving Agoran decisions", and
amend it to read:

      The vote collector for a particular Agoran decision is
      authorized to resolve that decision, and does so by publishing a
      valid notice which states that the matter has been resolved,
      indicating the option selected by Agora.  To be valid, this
      notice must satisfy the following conditions:

      (a) It is published after the voting period has ended.

      (b) It clearly identifies the matter to be resolved.

      (c) It clearly identifies the options available.

      (d) It specifies which option was selected by Agora, as
          described elsewhere, and provides a tally of the voters'
          valid ballots on the various options.

      Each Agoran decision shall have at most one vote collector at a
      time.  The identity of the vote collector is set by the message
      initiating the decision, and can only be changed as specified by
      other rules with power at least as great as that of this rule.

      This rule takes precedence over any rule that would provide
      another mechanism by which an Agoran decision may be resolved.

Change the title of rule 955 (Votes Required to Adopt a Proposal) to
"Determining the Will of Agora", and amend it to read:

      To determine which option on a particular Agoran decision was
      selected by Agora, the vote collector shall perform the
      following steps in order after the voting period has ended.

      (a) E shall invalidate any ballots which the rules require em to
          invalidate, and no others.

      (b) E shall count the number of distinct voters who submitted
          ballots which remain valid.  If this number is less than the
          quorum and there is more than one available option, then the
          option selected by Agora is FAILED QUORUM.  Otherwise, the
          decision achieved quorum.

      (c) If the decision is whether to adopt a proposal or
          referendum, e shall determine the voting index as follows:

          (1) if the strength of FOR is positive and the strength of
              AGAINST is zero, then the voting index is Unanimity; but

          (2) if the strength of FOR is zero, then the voting index is
              zero; otherwise,

          (3) the voting index is the ratio of the strength of FOR to
              the strength of AGAINST.

          If the voting index exceeds one and meets or exceeds the
          adoption index of the decision, and if further quorum was
          achieved, then the option selected by Agora is ADOPTED.
          Otherwise, the option selected by Agora is REJECTED.

      (d) If the decision is an election, then as long as quorum is
          achieved, the vote collector has the privilege to choose any
          option the strength of which meets or exceeds that of any
          other option to be the option selected by Agora.

Change the power of rule 1950 (Voting Power) to 3.
Change the title of rule 1950 to "Voting Limits", and amend it to
read:

      The voting limit of an eligible voter on a referendum or an
      election is always one and cannot be changed.

      The voting limit of an eligible voter on a non-ordinary proposal
      is one.

      The voting limit of an eligible voter on an ordinary proposal is
      the sum of:

      (a) one;

      (b) eir Share Holdings; and

      (c) the minimum of three and the number of Share cards in the
          Deck, if e is the Deckmastor.

      After the voting period for an Agoran decision has ended, the
      vote collector shall permit the first valid ballots submitted by
      an eligible voter to remain valid, up to a number equal to that
      person's voting limit on that decision as determined when the
      voting period for that decision began, and shall invalidate all
      subsequent ballots submitted by that voter on that decision.

Enact a rule with power 3, titled "Replacing the Vote Collector", and
reading: 

      If the rules indicate that an office is to be responsible for
      collecting votes on a particular Agoran decision, then the
      holder of that office is the default vote collector for that
      decision.

      The vote collector for a particular Agoran decision is tardy if
      and only if the voting collector has continuously held that role
      for at least seven days following the end of the voting period
      and the decision has not yet been resolved.  If a vote collector
      is tardy, then the first player to announce that e takes up the
      role of vote collector becomes the vote collector for that
      decision.

      This rule takes precedence over any rule that would allow the
      vote collector for an Agoran decision to be changed.

Amend rule 879 (Quorum) to read:

      The quorum for an Agoran decision is one third the number of
      eligible voters, rounded up, with a minimum of five (unless
      there are fewer than five eligible voters, in which case the
      quorum level is the number of eligible voters).

Amend rule 2045 (Adoption Indices) to read:

      When a decision on whether to adopt a proposal or referendum is
      initiated, it shall be assigned an adoption index, which shall
      be one unless otherwise specified.  Once the voting period for a
      decision has begun, the adoption index of that decision can only
      be changed by the Speaker's veto.
      
Amend rule 2034 (Voting Protection and Cutoff for Challenges) to read:

      Any proposal that, as all or part of its effect, would change
      the validity of one or more of a voter's ballots on an Agoran
      decision whose voting period has begun but which has not yet
      been resolved shall be wholly without effect, any rule to the
      contrary notwithstanding.

      Once an Agoran decision has been resolved, no ballots on that
      decision may be validly submitted or retracted, and the outcome
      of the decision may not be changed in any way, any rule to the
      contrary notwithstanding.  Nothing in this rule shall be
      construed as preventing the correction of errors in reporting
      the resolution of an Agoran decision.

      If the success of the resolution of an Agoran decision is not
      challenged within one week from the time the vote collector
      announces it, then the announced result is the true result of
      that decision, even if it would otherwise be in error.

Section 1.  Referenda and Elections.

Change the power of rule 1434 (Default Procedure for Referendum
Voting) to 2, and amend it to read:

      Determining whether to adopt a referendum is an Agoran decision.
      For this decision, the available options are FOR, AGAINST, and
      PRESENT, and the eligible voters are the players.

      If the option selected by Agora on this decision is ADOPTED,
      then the referendum is adopted, and unless other rules prevent
      it from taking effect, it takes effect.  It does not otherwise
      take effect.  This rule takes precedence over any rule which
      would permit a referendum to take effect.

Enact a rule, titled "Nominations for Election", reading:

      A person is a nominator and a prospective in an election only if
      e is an active player.  The rules may further restrict validity
      of nominators and prospectives.

      A nominator nominates a prospective in a specified election by
      announcement.  That nominator may publicly retract eir
      nomination of that prospective.

      A prospective may publicly decline eir nomination; if e does so,
      e may not be further nominated in that election.

      A nominee in an election is a prospective who has been nominated
      and whose nomination has not been retracted or declined.

Change the title of rule 1764 (Modes of Voting) to "Modes of
Nomination", and amend it to read:

      There are three modes of nomination for elections: selfless,
      selfish, and open.  If the player who initiated the election
      does not specify the mode of nomination for an election, it is
      selfish.

      (1) In a selfless election, any nominator may nominate any
          prospective besides emself.

      (2) In a selfish election, any nominator who is a prospective
          may nominate emself.

      (3) In an open election, any nominator may nominate any
          prospective.

Amend rule 1445 (Defaults for Elections) to read:

      When the rules require a player to hold an election, e shall
      perform the following actions in order, beginning as soon as
      possible:

      (a) E shall publish a call for nominees, optionally specifying
          the mode of nominations for the upcoming election.  One week
          later, if there are no nominees, e shall repeat this step in
          its entirety.

      (b) E shall initiate an election, which is an Agoran decision.
          For this decision:

          (1) The available options are the nominees.  Eir
              announcement initiating the election must indicate the
              available options.

          (2) The eligible voters are the active players.

          (3) E is the vote collector.

          (4) If the vote collector has not yet resolved the election,
              then any nominee may stand down by announcement.  When a
              nominee stands down, e is removed from the list of
              options for the election.

      (c) The vote collector for an election is required to resolve
          the election as soon as possible after the end of its voting
          period.  If the option selected by Agora is a nominee, that
          nominee is the winner of the election.  Otherwise, the
          election has no winner.

Amend rule 1558 (Defaults for Elections for Offices) to read:

      When the rules require that an election be held to fill an
      office, that election shall be conducted in accordance with the
      usual rules for elections, with the following exceptions:

      (a) If the election would be held to fill the office of
          Associate Director of Personnel, then the election shall be
          initiated by the Speaker; otherwise, it shall be initiated
          by the Associate Director of Personnel.

      (b) A player who is not eligible to hold the office for which
          the election is being held is not a prospective.

Amend rule 790 (Filling Vacant Offices) to read:

      An election to fill an office must be held whenever:

      (a) the office ceases to have an electee;

      (b) the office is created without installing an electee; or

      (c) an election to fill that office fails, and no election for
          that office is in progress.

      As long as an election to fill an office is in progress, no
      other election to fill that office may be initiated.  An
      election is in progress from the time it is initiated until it
      is resolved.

      If a player required to initiate an election fails to do so as
      soon as possible, then any player may announce that the election
      has failed.  Provided that this assertion is indeed correct,
      then upon this announcement the election fails.

Amend rule 1659 (The Right to Call Elections) to read:

      The Speaker has the right to call elections, and e exercises
      this right by a publishing a notice listing a number of offices
      and declaring that e is exercising eir right to call elections
      for these offices.  If e has not exercised this right since e
      last became Speaker, then upon the publication of this notice,
      the electee of each listed office is retired from office.

Change the title of rule 1486 (Procedure to Impeach an Officer) to
"Procedure for an Orderly Witch Hunt", and amend it to read:

      An active player (the Witch Hunter) may hold a referendum to
      remove an officer from office.  For this referendum:

      (a) The set of eligible voters is the set of active players
          besides the Witch Hunter and the named officer.

      (b) The adoption index is 2.

      (c) "BURN THE WITCH" is a synonym for "FOR".

      (d) "LET THE WITCH LIVE" is a synonym for "AGAINST".

      (e) "OF COURSE THE WITCH IS GUILTY, BUT I WANT TO SEE WHAT OTHER
          PEOPLE THINK" is a synonym for "PRESENT".

      If the referendum is adopted, it shall have the effect of
      removing the named player from the named office if e is electee
      to that office.

Section 2.  Proposals.

Amend rule 2019 (The Speaker's Veto) to read:

      During the voting period of a non-democratic proposal, the
      Speaker may veto it, with two support.  When e does so, the
      adoption index of that proposal is increased by one.

Amend rule 1483 (Definition of Proposals) to read:

      A proposal is a document outlining changes to be made to Agora,
      including enacting, repealing, or amending rules, or making
      other explicit changes to the gamestate.

      A legislator submits a proposal by publishing it with a clear
      indication that it is intended to become a proposal.  As soon as
      possible afterward, the Promotor shall add this proposal to the
      Proposal Pool.

      While a proposal is in the Proposal Pool, its proposer may
      modify its adoption index by announcement, specifying the
      proposal and its new adoption index.  The default adoption index
      of a proposal is one.

      All players are legislators.

Amend rule 1774 (Discarding Proposals from the Pool) to read:

      If a proposal in the Proposal Pool has been undistributable and
      in the Pool for more than two weeks continuously, then the
      Promotor may remove that proposal from the Pool by announcement.

      The proposer of a proposal may remove it from the Pool by
      announcement.

Amend rule 106 (Adopting Proposals) to read:

      Determining whether to adopt a proposal is an Agoran decision.
      For this decision, the available options are FOR, AGAINST, and
      PRESENT, and by default, the eligible voters are the active
      players, the adoption index is the adoption index of the
      proposal, and the vote collector is the Assessor.

      If the option selected by Agora on this decision is ADOPTED,
      then the proposal is adopted, and unless other rules prevent it
      from taking effect, its power is set to the minimum of four and
      its adoption index, and then it takes effect.  It does not
      otherwise take effect.  This rule takes precedence over any rule
      which would permit a proposal to take effect.

Amend rule 1770 (Distributing Proposals) to read:

      (a) The Promotor is permitted to distribute a distributable
          proposal in the Proposal Pool at any time.

      (b) During each week, the Promotor must distribute each proposal
          which was distributable at the beginning of the week and
          which remains distributable.

      (c) If there were no proposals in the Proposal Pool at the
          beginning of a week, then the Promotor must announce this
          fact at some time during that week.

      (d) The Promotor legally distributes a proposal by publishing it
          accompanied by an explicit indication that it is being
          distributed.  When a proposal is distributed, it is removed
          from the Proposal Pool.  The distribution of a proposal
          initiates the Agoran decision of whether to adopt the
          proposal, as described elsewhere.

      (e) The Promotor shall include with the distribution of each
          proposal the identity of its proposer, the proposal's
          coauthors, if any, its chamber, and its adoption index.
          However, the failure of the Promotor to include any of these
          with a proposal does not deprive the distribution of the
          proposal of any legal effect.

Amend rule 1952 (Making Proposals Distributable) to read:

      The Promotor shall have a budget containing the per-player
      proposal limit, which shall be a positive integer defaulting to
      four.

      Depth is a stuck proposal switch with values undistributable and
      distributable.

      A player may flip the depth of one of eir proposals in the
      Proposal Pool to distributable by announcement as long as the
      number of eir distributable proposals in the Pool is less than
      the per-player proposal limit.

Amend rule 1933 (A Proposal's Chamber) to read:

      Chamber is a stuck proposal switch with values democratic and
      ordinary.

      An ordinary proposal with adoption index of two or greater is
      stalled.  Rules to the contrary notwithstanding, a proposal is
      undistributable while it is stalled.  If a proposal is
      distributed that was stalled at the time of distribution, its
      chamber shall immediately and automatically be flipped to
      democratic.

      While a proposal is in the Proposal Pool, its proposer may flip
      its chamber by announcement.  This rule takes precedence over
      any rule that would permit the chamber of a proposal to be
      changed.

Amend rule 1449 (The Assessor) to read:

      The Assessor is an office; its holder is responsible for
      receiving and announcing the results of votes on proposals.

      The Assessor's weekly report shall include a list of the
      identity and voting limit for proposals in each chamber for each
      entity with nonzero voting power in at least one chamber.

Amend rule 1688 (Power) to read:

      The power of an entity is a natural number, which is zero unless
      otherwise defined or modified according to procedures defined by
      the rules.  An instrument is an entity with positive power.

Change the title of rule 594 (Power and Proposals) to "Enactment of
Rules", and amend it to read:

      A proposal can, as part of its effect, enact a rule, specifying
      its content and optionally specifying its power and title.  If
      the proposal does not specify the power, the rule shall have
      power equal to one.  If the proposal specifies the power, then
      the rule shall have power equal to the minimum of four, the
      power of the proposal, and the power specified by the proposal.
      If the title is not specified, the Rulekeepor may select any
      title e sees fit.

      When a rule is enacted, the Rulekeepor shall assign it a number,
      which must be greater than any number previously assigned, and
      shall assign it a revision number of zero.

      This rule provides the only mechanism by which rules can be
      enacted.

Change the title of rule 1322 (Effectiveness of Rule Changes) to
"Modification of Rules", and amend it to read:

      A proposal can generally, as part of its effect, modify the
      power, title, or text of a rule with power no greater than its
      own.  However, a proposal cannot cause a rule to have power
      greater than its own.  Any ambiguity in a modification specified
      by a proposal causes that modification to be void and without
      effect.  A variation in whitespace or capitalization in the
      quotation of an existing rule does not constitute ambiguity for
      the purposes of this rule, but any other variation does.

      When a rule is modified, the Rulekeepor shall generally record
      an increase by one in its revision number.  If a single proposal
      modifies a regulation several times, the Rulekeepor shall only
      record a single increase of its revision number.

      This rule provides the only mechanism by which rules can be
      modified.

Amend rule 1681 (The Logical Rulesets) to read:

      There is a format of the ruleset known as the Short Logical
      Ruleset (SLR).  In this format, each rule is assigned to a
      category, and the rules are grouped according to their category.
      Within a category, the ordering of rules is decided by the
      Rulekeepor.  All existing categories must be listed, even if no
      rules are currently assigned to the category.

      The listing of each rule in the SLR must include the rule's
      number, revision number, power, title, and text, and must also
      include any annotations to the rule required by order.

      The Rulekeepor is strongly encouraged not to include any
      additional information in the SLR, except that which increases
      the readability of the SLR.

      There is a format of the ruleset known as the Full Logical
      Ruleset (FLR).  In this format, rules are assigned to the same
      category and presented in the same order as in the SLR.  The FLR
      must contain all the information required to be in the SLR, as
      well as a brief description of each category and any historical
      annotations which the Rulekeepor is required to record.

      The Rulekeepor is also free to include any other information
      which e feels may be helpful in the use of the ruleset in the
      FLR.

Enact a rule with power 3, titled "Repeal of Rules", reading:

      A proposal can, as part of its effect, repeal a rule with power
      no greater than its own.  When a rule is repealed, it ceases to
      be a rule, and the Rulekeepor need no longer maintain a record
      of it.

      This rule provides the only mechanism by which rules can be
      repealed.

Amend rule 2095 (The Assessor's Boon Duties) to read:

      If a proposal is submitted and adopted during that player's
      Grace Period, then the Assessor shall award that player the boon
      of Prodigy.

      If a proposal is adopted, and nobody voted AGAINST it, then the
      Assessor shall award its proposer the boon of Zeitgeist.

      If a proposal submitted on Guy Fawkes Day is adopted, then the
      Assessor shall award its proposer the boon of A Penny.

Section 3.  Cards.

Amend rule 1932 (Shareholders and the Corporation) to read:

      All cards with the Element "Shares [X]" are cumulatively known
      as the Stock Cards.

      An entity's Share Holdings is equal to the number of Shares
      possessed by that entity. The Number of Shares is the sum of the
      Share Holdings of all entities.

      A Shareholder is an entity with positive Share Holdings.  A
      Plebeian is a player who is not an eligible Shareholder.  The
      Corporation is the set of all eligible Shareholders.

      To be valid, a ballot on an ordinary proposal must be submitted
      by an eligible Shareholder.

Each player gains a pending draw for each copy of any of the following
cards in eir hand:

      (a) Debate-o-Matic;
      (b) Coalition;
      (c) Patronage;
      (d) Policy; or
      (e) Procedure.

Amend the Deckmastor's budget by deleting the quota for each of the
following cards:

      (a) Debate-o-Matic;
      (b) Coalition;
      (c) Patronage;
      (d) Policy; and
      (e) Procedure.

Amend the Twopower Cardbook by deleting the text:

      * Caption:   Debate-o-Matic
        Frequency: Common
        Elements:  Powered [2]
        Exploit:   Change the Chamber of any one non-Sane Proposal to
          the Chamber of your choice, provided it is legal for that
          Proposal to be in the named Chamber.

   == Democratic Cards ==

      * Caption:   Coalition
        Frequency: Rare
        Elementys: Grafty
        Exploit:   You may increase or decrease the Voting Potential
          of an indicated Player by N by paying a fee of N for
          yourself, or 2 times N for another Player.

      * Caption:   Patronage
        Frequency: Rare
        Elements:  Grafty, Powered [2]
        Exploit:   You may increase or decrease the Political Charge
          by N by paying a fee of 4 times N.  If undefined elsewhere,
          the Political Charge is a positive integer, tracked by the
          Assessor, which begins at 4. No fee required by the Powered
          [X] element need be paid to activate this exploit.

      * Caption:   Policy
        Frequency: Rare
        Elements:  Powered [2]
        Exploit:   You may sanitize a Proposal, as described elsewhere
          in the Rules.

      * Caption:   Procedure
        Frequency: Rare
        Exploit:   You may abort and make undistributable any non-sane
          Proposal.

Amend rule 2067 (Cards in Play) to read:

      The following Classes of Cards are defined:

      * Caption: Distrib-u-Matic
        Elements: Budgeted
        Exploit: Cause any one Proposal to become Distributable.

      * Caption: Absolv-o-Matic
        Elements: Budgeted
        Exploit: If you are immaculate, you may expunge
          N blots from an entity for a fee of N-1.  Otherwise, you may
          expunge one blot from an entity for no fee.

      * Caption: Two for One
        Elements: Budgeted
        Exploit: For a fee of one Kudo make 2 undistributable
          proposals, provided that each has a Distribution Cost of 1,
          distributable.

Section 4. Repeals.

Repeal rule  115 (Self-Referential Rules Allowed).
Repeal rule  376 (When Proposals Take Effect).
Repeal rule 1036 (The Proposal Pool).
Repeal rule 1069 (Amendment Numbers).
Repeal rule 1274 (Definition of Indices).
Repeal rule 1339 (Precision in Rule Changes).
Repeal rule 1349 (Rule Numbering).
Repeal rule 1715 (Announcing One's Presence).
Repeal rule 1724 (Urgent Proposals).
Repeal rule 1835 (Standing Down).
Repeal rule 2033 (Aborting a Proposal).
Repeal rule 2052 (Voting Potential).
Repeal rule 2060 (Guy Fawkes Day).
Repeal rule 2078 (Takeover Proposals).
Repeal rule 2085 (Mute Exemption).
Repeal rule 2102 (Extraordinary Proposals).
Repeal rule 2103 (Sanitizing Proposals).

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4812 by Sherlock, AI=1, Ordinary
How Low Can You Go?


Alter the rule entitled "Hard Ruleset Limits" by replacing the text
that reads "300" with text that reads "275".

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4813 by Sherlock, AI=1, Ordinary
How Lower Can You Go


   Change the rule entitled "Hard Ruleset Limits" to read:

      If there are 250 or more Rules, and a Proposal is adopted that
      would increase the total number of Rules, the Proposer commits
      the Class 2 Infraction of Improper Rules Fattening, reportable
      by anyone.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4814 by Sherlock, AI=1, Ordinary
How Lowest Can You Go


   Change the rule entitled "Hard Ruleset Limits" to read:

      If there are 225 or more Rules, and a Proposal is adopted that
      would increase the total number of Rules, the Proposer commits
      the Class 2 Infraction of Improper Rules Fattening, reportable
      by anyone.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal 4815 by Sherlock, AI=1, Ordinary
Really, 200 Rules is Enough


   Change the rule entitled "Hard Ruleset Limits" to read:

      If there are 200 or more Rules, and a Proposal is adopted that
      would increase the total number of Rules, the Proposer commits
      the Class 2 Infraction of Improper Rules Fattening, reportable
      by anyone.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

-- 
Assessor C. Maud Image (Michael Slone)
Holy cow!  This means "This Time to the Public Forum"!
                -- Sherlock, in agora-discussion
