Voting Results

Start of voting period:  Mon, 2006-03-06 05:30:24
   End of voting period:  Mon, 2006-03-13 05:30:24

Proposal  Title                    Author(s)  F/A/P  VI/AI  Quorum  Result
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
4851 (O)  Chips                    Murphy    10/8/0   5/4    8/5    Adopted
4852 (O)  The Black and Yellow...  root      10/6/1   5/3    8/5    Adopted
4853 (O)  Alternate Conclaves      Goethe    15/2/0  15/2    8/5    Adopted
4854 (O)  Third Vatican Council    Murphy    4/12/1   1/3    8/5    Rejected

                 4851  4852  4853  4854

Eris            F+A    F     F     A
Goethe           F     F     F     A
Manu             F     F     F     A
Maud             A     A     A     A
Michael          A     F     A     P
Murphy           *
OscarMeyr       3F    3A    3F    3A
root            5A    5F    5F    5A
Sherlock        4F   F+P+2A 4F    4F

* Murphy's attempted votes on P4851 were cast four hours too late.

FOR             10    10    15     4
AGAINST          8     6     2    12
PRESENT          0     1     0     1

Voting Index    5/4   5/3   15/2  1/3
Adoption Index   1     1     1     1

Voters           8     8     8     8
Quorum           5     5     5     5

Text of Adopted Proposals
----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4851 by Murphy, AI=1, Ordinary
Chips


Amend Rule 2068 (The Deckmastor) to read:

       The Deckmastor is an office; its holder is responsible for fair
       play, shuffling, and dealing, and is the recordkeepor for cards
       and chips.

       The Deckmastor's weekly report shall contain a record of all
       cards and chips in existence, recent card and chip actions, and
       what entity holds each card and chip.  The Deckmastor need not
       record or report transfers of cards to the table.

Amend Rule 2069 (Card Actions) by replacing this text:

       the sum of the number of pending draws for each gambler is
       greater than the number of cards in the deck, or that there are
       no cards in the deck

with this text:

       there are no cards in the deck

Amend Rule 2075 (Winning Hands) by replacing this text:

       all heavy pending draws shall be deemed satisfied.

with this text:

       all white chips shall be forfeited to the Pot.

Create a rule titled "Gaining and Losing Chips" with this text:

       If the rules say that a player gains a chip, it is created in
       eir possession.  Rumor and superstition have it that these chips
       come from a mystical place referred to in legend as The House,
       which is to be greatly feared by all gamblers.

       If the rules say that a player loses a chip, without specifying
       which chip e loses:

         (a) If e has at least one red chip, then one of eir red chips
             is forfeited to the Pot.

         (b) Otherwise, if e has at least one white chip, then one of
             eir white chips is forfeited to the Pot.

         (c) Otherwise, if e has at least one card, then the Deckmastor
             shall discard one of that player's cards at random.

         (d) Otherwise, the next chip e gains is immediately forfeited
             to the Pot.

Change the name of Rule 2080 (Basic Draws) to "Chip Sources", and
amend it to read:

       At the beginning of each month, each player gains three white
       chips and one red chip.

       Upon the adoption of a proposal, the author gains one white
       chip.

       A player who gains a Boon gains a red chip.  A player who gains
       an Albatross loses a chip.

Amend Rule 2049 (Ephemera) by removing this text:

       A Player who gains a Boon is considered to have drawn a free
       card for that boon.  A Player who gains an Albatross loses a
       pending draw.

Change the name of Rule 2120 (Satisfying Draws) to "Cashing In One's
Chips", and amend it to read:

       The Pot is a site.

       A player may cash in one or more of eir chips by transferring
       them to the Pot.  As soon as possible after e does so, the
       Deckmastor shall deal em a card for each non-forfeited chip.

Amend Rule 2089 (Gardner Library) to read:

       Whenever the Library's hand size plus number of chips is less
       than five, it receives a red chip.

       A player (the Borrower) may check out a specified card currently
       in the Library's hand for a fee (2 for Students, 1 for Faculty
       Members), upon which the card is transferred to the Borrower.

       The President of the University may discard any card in the
       possession of the Library without two objections.

Amend Rule 2075 (Winning Hands) by replacing this text:

       If the announcement is true, the holding Gambler Wins the Game,
       and is awarded the boon of Pokerface and the defined regular
       Patent Title Champion.

with this text:

       If the announcement is true, the holding Gambler Wins the Game,
       and is awarded the boon of Pokerface, the defined regular Patent
       Title Champion, and a blue chip (non-transferrable) marked with
       the number of red and white chips in the Pot (after which the
       Pot is emptied).

Amend Rule 2083 (Hand Reductions) by replacing this text:

         (i) Satisfy all satisfiable pending draws for that gambler and
             announce a pending hand reduction;

        (ii) Wait at least four days, during which e may not satisfy
             pending draws for that gambler;

with this text:

         (i) Satisfy all requirements to deal cards to that gambler for
             cashed-in chips and announce a pending hand reduction;

        (ii) Wait at least four days, during which the gambler may not
             cash in any chips;

Create a rule titled "Fees" with this text:

       A player plays a fee of X by cashing in X chips.  These chips
       are forfeited.


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4852 by root, AI=1, Ordinary
The Black and Yellow Repeals


* This proposal:
*   - Modifies the Library to use fees for checking out cards
*   - Fixes the Library's infinite draw bug
*   - Fixes the Library Renewal card bug
*   - Separates the Library and Card Labs from the University (and
*     shifts maintenance duties from the Speaker to the Deckmastor)
*   - Demolishes the rest of the University (apart from theses)

Amend Rule 2089 (Gardner Library) to read:

       The Library is a site.  The Deckmastor is a limited executor of
       the Library.

       As soon as possible after the beginning of each quarter, the
       Deckmastor shall discard all cards in the possession of the
       Library.  The Library then gains five pending draws.

       A player (hereafter the Borrower) may check out a specified card
       from the Library by paying a fee.  The amount of the fee is 2
       for Students and 1 for Faculty Members.

       Whenever a card is checked out from the Library, it is
       transferred to the Borrower.


Amend the Onepower Cardbook by replacing the text reading:

        * Caption:   Library Renewal
          Frequency: Rare
          Exploit:   Indicate a positive integer less than 6.  As soon
                     as possible, the President of the University must
                     randomly discard the indicated number of cards from
                     the Library's hand, or all cards from the Library's
                     hand, whichever is greater.

with:

        * Caption:   Library Renewal
          Frequency: Rare
          Exploit:   Indicate a non-empty set of at most 5 cards in the
                     possession of the Library.  As soon as possible, the
                     Deckmastor must discard the indicated cards from the
                     Library's hand.  The Library gains a number of
                     pending draws equal to the number of indicated
                     cards.


The Library is hereby deemed to have exactly five pending draws.


Amend Rule 2104 (Contreras Card Labs) by deleting the text "The
University encourages Card experimentation."


Amend Rule 2086 (The University of Agora) by renaming it "Education"
and changing it to read:

       Education is a stuck player switch with values Student and
       Faculty Member.  The Herald is the recordkeepor of education.
       As soon as possible after a player is awarded a degree, the
       Herald shall flip the education of that player to Faculty
       Member.


Amend Rule 1377 (The Herald) by appending the text:

        (iv)  Each player's Education.


Repeal Rule 2091 (The Office of Secretary of the University).
Repeal Rule 2087 (Research Grants).
Repeal Rule 2088 (The University Book Club).


----------------------------------------------------------------------


Proposal 4853 by Goethe, AI=1, Ordinary
Alternate Conclaves


Proposal: Alternate Conclaves

[V1.0 Changes from first version: Should be no different in effects,
  tightened language (for example, realized reasons for Speaker
  deregistering (e.g. lawlessness) could be generalized. Also, found
  that it could be written as two rules and not 3. Bonus: if we ever
  repeal the rule "Conclaves", "Church and State" on its own will put
  us back to Ur-Agora, where you became speaker by winning. ]

[V0.1 Adds mechanism of Agoran consent for quick decisions, rewrites
  Conclaves with that mechanism, and fixes Conclave bugs that have
  turned up].

Create the following Rule, entitled "Agoran Consent"

       If the Rules specify that an entity may perform an action with
       Agoran Consent, then the entity may perform the action with M
       supporters and without N objections, as long as M is greater
       than N.


Amend Rule 2104 (Contreras Card Labs) by replacing:

       Any Player may add, delete, or amend a Scoring Instruction in
       the Blueprints Cardbook, with M support and without N
       Objections, where M is greater than or equal to N at the time
       the change is performed, and N is at least 1.

with:

       Any Player may add, delete, or amend a Scoring Instruction in
       the Blueprints Cardbook, with Agoran Consent.


Amend Rule 681 (Conditions for Conclavity) by changing its title to
"Conclaves" and amending it to read:

       Agora exits from Conclave whenever a player becomes a pope.

       Agora enters into Conclave whenever there is no pope and one of
       the following triggering events occurs:

       (a) the Speaker resigns the Speakership, becomes inactive, or
           otherwise ceases to be Speaker without another player being
           installed as Speaker;

       (b) the success of a Call for Revolt is announced, and the
           Speaker was abiding at the time of the Call for Revolt, in
           which case the rebellious cardinals are the only qualified
           cardinals;

       (c) two or more cardinals simultaneously win the game, in which
           case these cardinals are the only qualified cardinals;

       (d) no pope has become Speaker for the past six months; or

       (e) a pope ceases to be pope without becoming Speaker.

       As soon as possible after Agora enters into conclave, the
       Associate Director of Personnel must announce the fact and
       publish a list of qualified cardinals.  All cardinals are
       considered qualified unless specifically restricted by the
       particular triggering event.  If Agora is already in conclave
       when a triggering event occurs, Agora remains in conclave, but
       the qualification of each cardinal is modified to reflect the
       more recent event.

       While Agora is in conclave, any player may make a qualified
       Cardinal into a pope, with Agoran consent.  If the legality of
       this action is not challenged within seven days of it being
       attempted, then it shall be allowed to stand, even if is
       subsequently found to be illegal.

       So there's always hope
       that you can be pope.


Repeal Rule 786 (Default Procedure for Conclaves).


Amend Rule 402 (Church and State) to read:

       A cardinal is an active, ready player who is neither the current
       Speaker nor the Associate Director of Personnel.

       For seven days after a cardinal wins the game with no other
       players simultaneously winning, that cardinal may announce that
       e becomes a pope.  Upon this announcement, that player becomes a
       pope, so please treat em right good forever.

       When a cardinal becomes a pope, any previous pope immediately
       ceases being a pope.  Whenever a pope is not a cardinal, e
       immediately ceases being a pope.

       As soon as possible after a cardinal becomes a pope, the
       Associate Director of Personnel shall install that pope as
       Speaker, by announcement.  Upon this announcement, if the player
       is still a pope, then the current Speaker ceases to be Speaker,
       and the pope is installed as the new Speaker and ceases to be a
       pope.

       This installation cannot be performed if there are unresolved
       challenges regarding the pope-ness of the player.  If the
       legality of an installation is not challenged within seven days
       of it being attempted, then it shall be allowed to stand, even
       if is subsequently found to be illegal.

       If the office of ADoP is ever vacant, or the identity of its
       holder cannot be determined with reasonable certainty, then
       installation may be performed by any player by announcement.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
