
Assessor's Voting Report
Proposals 4281-4283

No.    Title                           By        AI Flags  Result     VI
----  ------------------------------  ---------- -- ----- --------- -----
4281   Massive Economic Reform         Goethe     2  C     ADOPTED  24/1
4282   Massive Political Reform        Goethe     2  C     ADOPTED  21/6
4283   Massive Land Reform             Goethe     2  C     ADOPTED  23/3
----  ------------------------------- ---------- -- ----- --------- -----
D:Disinterested C:Democratic U:Urgent S:Sane
I:Insane O:Opposite T: Contested

H. Scorekeepor please note, by Rule 1930:
   - OscarMeyr receives 2 Points (only Player to vote Against 4281).
   - Goethe receives 20 Points (4281-4283 adopted with total 10 votes
     against).

              4281      4282      4283         [* Presence]
              -----     -----     -----
Sir Toby      1F        1F          ,1A
Michael       2F        2F
Crito           *         *         *
Goethe        3F        3F        3F
root            *         *       2F
Orjan           *         *         ,1A
OscarMeyr       ,1A       ,1A       ,1A
Steve         3F          ,5A     3F
Anemocrats   15F       15F       15F

FOR/AGAI.    24/1       21/6      23/3
ABSTAIN        0          0         0
VOTERS         8          8         7
QUORUM?      yes        yes       yes
ADOPTED?     yes        yes       yes


=========Text of adopted Proposals======================================

Proposal #4281 by Goethe, AI=2
Massive Economic Reform

[This changes the basis of the economy.  All Players may bid
 on any currency.  However, the appropriate roles can perform
 currency-related actions much more cheaply, so they can set
 the "going rate" for the actions (while still allowing all
 Players to spend to perform them).]


This Proposal has an Adoption Index of 2.


Amend Rule 1946 by deleting the following text:
                           Only Politicians may bid.


Amend Rule 1954 by deleting the following text:
                           Only Scribes may bid.


Amend Rule 1712 by replacing:
      In addition, the Auction shall be conducted in Stems
      with only Acolytes being allowed to bid.

with:
      The Auction shall be conducted in Stems.


Amend Rule 1986 to read:

   A Scribe may Rubberstamp a Proposal by paying a Fee in Papyri,
   or receiving the Support of a number of other Scribes, equal to
   the number of Proposals that the Scribe has previously
   Rubberstamped in the current Nomic Week (minimum zero).  A
   Rubberstamped Proposal becomes Distributable:  this does not
   change its Distribution Fee.

   An Acolyte may absolve (remove) 1 Blot from any Entity by paying
   Fee in Indulgences, or receiving the Support of a number of other
   Acolytes, equal to the number of such Absolutions the Acolyte has
   previously performed in the current Nomic Week (minimum zero).

   An Acolyte may Exorcise a Dissolute Entity with the Support of
   another Acolyte.  The effect of Exorcism is to instantly
   transfer all of the Entity's Indulgences to the Bank.

   An Acolyte with the Support of a Scribe, or a Scribe with the
   Support of an Acolyte, may Bless an Undistributed Proposal.  A
   moment after its Distribution, a Blessed Proposal becomes
   Democratic if it is not already.

   A Politician, with the Support of another Poltician, may Unbless
   an Undistributed Blessed Proposal.  An Unblessed Proposal is no
   longer Blessed.

   An Untainted Speaker, with 2 Supporters, may Sanitise a
   Distributed Proposal for which the Voting Period has not ended.
   If this happens, the Proposal is Aborted as described elsewhere,
   but remains Distributable and becomes Democratic and Sane.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal #4282 by Goethe, AI=2
Massive Political Reform

This Proposal has an Adoption Index of 2.


Amend Rule 1933 (Ordinary and Democratic Proposals) to read:

      Every Proposal shall be in (or have) exactly one defined
      Chamber out of the following possibile Chambers:
          (A) Ordinary;
          (B) Democratic;
          (C) Parliamentary.

      Rules to the nonwithstanding, a Proposal can never be
      Ordinary if its Adoption Index is two (2) or greater.

      Every Proposals is initially Ordinary unless the above
      limitation applies to it, in which case it is initially
      Democratic.  The Chamber of a Proposal may only be changed
      as specified by an instrument with Power greater than or equal
      to two (2).


Change the title of Rule 1933 to "A Proposal's Chamber"


Amend Rule 1770 (Distributing Proposal) by replacing:
       and an indication of whether the Proposal is Ordinary or
       Democratic.
with:
       and an indication of the Proposal's Chamber.


Amend Rule 1449 (The Assessor) by replacing:
      The Assessor's Weekly Report shall include a list of the
      identity, voting power on ordinary proposals, and voting power
      on democratic proposals for each entity with nonzero voting
      power on either ordinary or democratic proposals.
with:
      The Assessor's Weekly Report shall include a list of the
      identity and voting power for Proposals in each Chamber, for
      all entities with nonzero voting power in at least one Chamber.


Amend Rule 1950 (Voting Power) to read:

      (a) An entity's Voting Power on an Ordinary Proposal is as
          follows:
            (1) An Oligarch: one;
            (2) Any other entity: zero.

      (b) An entity's Voting Power on a Democratic Proposal is as
          follows:
            (1) A Player: one plus the number of Voting Entitlements e
                possesses rounded down, minus one for every five Blots
                e has, with a minimum of zero and a maximum of:
                 (a) for an Oligarch, two;
                 (b) for a non-Oligarch, five.
            (2) The Bank: zero;
            (3) Any other entity: as defined in the Rules, with a
                default of zero if the Rules don't specify the Voting
                power on a Democratic Proposal for that entity.

      (c) An entity's Voting Power on a Parliamentary Proposal is
          as follows:
            (1) One, if the entity is one of the following:
                (a)   The Oligarchy;
                (b)   The Democracy;
                (c)   The Speakership.
            (2) Any other entity, zero.

      (c) The value of an entity's Voting Power for any given Chamber
          at the beginning of each Week shall be in effect for all
          Proposals distributed during that Week. However, if a Proposal's
          Chamber is changed after it has been distributed, the Voting
          Power of each entity for that Proposal is redetermined at the
          time the Chamber is changed.

      (d) An entity may cast as many votes as e wishes on a Proposal,
          in any combination, up to the limit determined by that entity's
          Voting Power on that Proposal, with the exceptions that:
              (1) no Player may vote on an Ordinary Proposal unless
                  e is an Oligarch at the time e casts eir vote.
              (2) Votes on Parliamentary Proposals shall only be
                  cast through specific mechanisms indicated by the
                  Rules for each specific entity with Voting Power
                  on Parliamentary Proposals.


Amend Rule 879 (Quorum) by appending the following text to the end:

       A Parliamentary Proposal acheives quorum if at least
       two of the entities with Voting Power on the Proposal
       are deemed to have cast votes either FOR or AGAINST it.


Create the following Rule entitled "Parliamentary Votes":

       For a Parliamentary Proposal, the Assessor will count
       as "Preliminary Votes" after the voting period has
       ended:
         1.  Communications from Oligarch Players or their
             executors which would have been legal votes if the
             Proposal had been Ordinary.
         2.  Communications from non-Oligarch Players or their
             executors which would have been legal votes if the
             Proposal had been Democratic.
         3.  Public communications from an untainted Speaker,
             indicating a Veto of the Proposal.

       If the preliminary votes of the Oligarch Players (both voting
       index and quorum, with the exception that the Speaker's Veto does
       not affect this determination of quorum) would have passed the
       Proposal were they deemed to be Ordinary Votes on an Ordinary
       Proposal, the Oligarchy shall be deemed to have cast 1 vote FOR the
       Proposal, otherwise the Oligarchy will be deemed to have cast 1
       vote AGAINST.

       If the preliminary votes of the non-Oligarch Players (both voting
       index and quorum) would have passed the Proposal were they
       deemed to be Democratic Votes on a Democratic Proposal, the
       Democracy shall be deemed to have cast 1 vote FOR the Proposal,
       otherwise the Democracy will be deemed to have cast 1 vote AGAINST.

       If the untainted Speaker Vetoed the Proposal, the Speakership
       shall be deemed to have cast 1 vote AGAINST the Proposal,
       otherwise the Speakership shall be deemed to have cast 1 vote
       FOR the Proposal.

       The timing of all votes cast on Parliamentary Proposals shall
       be deemed to be an instant before the end of the Voting Period.
       There are no other specific mechanisms for casting votes
       on Parliamentary Proposals.



Amend Rule 1986 (Role-Based Powers) to read:

   A Scribe may Rubberstamp a Proposal by paying a Fee in Papyri,
   or receiving the Support of a number of other Scribes, equal to
   the number of Proposals that the Scribe has previously
   Rubberstamped in the current Nomic Week (minimum zero).  A
   Rubberstamped Proposal becomes Distributable:  this does not
   change its Distribution Fee.

   An Acolyte may absolve (remove) 1 Blot from any Entity by paying
   Fee in Indulgences, or receiving the Support of a number of other
   Acolytes, equal to the number of such Absolutions the Acolyte has
   previously performed in the current Nomic Week (minimum zero).

   An Acolyte may Exorcise a Dissolute Entity with the Support of
   another Acolyte.  The effect of Exorcism is to instantly
   transfer all of the Entity's Indulgences to the Bank.

   An Acolyte with the Support of a Scribe, or a Scribe with the
   Support of an Acolyte, may Bless an Undistributed Proposal.  A
   moment after its Distribution, a Blessed Proposal becomes
   Democratic if it is not already.

   A Politician, with the Support of another Poltician, may Unbless
   an Undistributed Blessed Proposal.  An Unblessed Proposal is no
   longer Blessed.


Create a new Rule (Chamber Procedure) with a Power of 2, to read:

   The Chamber Fee for a Proposal is initially 0.1 Voting
   Entitlements.  Any Politician may change the Chamber of a
   Proposal that is not Sane to another Chamber of eir choice,
   by publicly paying this fee, provided that it is legal for the
   Proposal to be in the new Chamber.  When a Proposal's Chamber
   is changed via this Rule:
        (i)  The Chamber Fee for the Proposal is doubled;
        (ii) If the Proposal is in its Voting Period, it
             is Aborted as described elsewhere, and returned
             to the Proposal Pool with its Distributability
             and other characteristics intact.

   An Untainted Speaker, with 2 Supporters, may Sanitise a
   Distributed Proposal for which the Voting Period has not ended.
   If this happens, the Proposal is Aborted as described elsewhere,
   but remains Distributable and becomes Democratic and Sane.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal #4283 by Goethe, AI=2
Massive Land Reform

[Let's Play Go.]

This Proposal has an Adoption Index of 2.

Upon the adoption of this Proposal, the Payroll Clerk shall pay out
an amount of Stems to the Mapkeepor equal to the Mapkeepor's salary
times the BOS.

For the purposes of this Proposal, every Player that owns at least
one Land Unit in the moment before this Proposal is adopted shall
be know as Entitled.


Repeal Rule 2000 (Rule Location).
Repeal Rule 2001 (This Landscape, This Ruleset).
Repeal Rule 2007 (Developing Land).
Repeal Rule 2008 (Arcadian Cities).


Upon the adoption of this Proposal:
   All Land Units become Aether.
   All Land Units are transferred to the Land Bureau.
   The location of each Entity with a defined location is set to 0,0.


Amend Rule 1993 by replacing:

      All values for Latitude must lie between -25 and +25, inclusive.
      All values for Longitude must lie between -25 and +25, inclusive.

with:

      All values for Latitude must lie between -9 and +9, inclusive.
      All values for Longitude must lie between -9 and +9, inclusive.



Amend Rule 1997 to read:

      In addition to Aether, the following Land Types are defined:
           (a) Black;
           (b) White.


Amend Rule 1998 to read:

      Two Units of Land are Adjacent if and only if:
         (i) They have the same Latitude, and their Longitudes differ
             by exactly one; or
        (ii) They have the same Longitude, and their Latitudes differ
             by exactly one.

      The Penguin Distance between two given Units of Land is the
      minimum number of Single Waddles required to Travel from one of
      the given Units to the other given Unit, where one Single Waddle
      is the Penguin Distance required to Travel from one Unit of Land
      to an Adjacent Unit of Land.

      Two Units of Land are said to be Connected by a specific Type or
      Subtype of Land if it is possible to travel from the first Unit
      to the second by Waddling only over Land of that specific Type
      or Subtype.


Amend Rule 2003 to read:

      Every week, each Player may expend up to 10 Movement Units,
      and an Organization may expend up to 5 Movement Units, to
      move about in the Land of Arcadia.  Movement Units are not
      transferrable, and do not persist from one week to the next.

      A player makes a move by notifying the Mapkeepor of the specifics
      of the move.  So long as e does not spend more than eir allotted
      number of Movement Units, a Player may move as many times as e
      wishes in a single week.

      Entities may expend:
        * 2 Movement Units to move from one Land Unit to an adjacent
          Unit if their Land Types are the same and the destination
          is not Aether.
        * 5 Movement Units to move from one Land Unit to an adjacent
          Unit if their Land Types differ and the destination is not
          Aether;
        * 5 Movement Units to set Land Type of a Land Unit which e owns
          to any Land Type other than Aether, whether or not e is located
          at that Land Unit.
        * 10 Movement Units to set the Land Type of the Entity's current
          location to any Land Type of eir choice other than Aether, if
          and only if the Unit is owned by the Land Bureau.

      Unless explicity permitted by other Rules, all other Moves
      are invalid.


Create the following Rule entitled "Sente and Gote" with a Power of 1:

    On the fifteenth of each Nomic Month, the following actions occur in
    sequence, and these changes must be reported by the Mapkeepor as soon
    as possible after they occur:

          (i) Every Land Unit that is not connected by its own type to a
              unit of Aether shall be transformed to Aether;

         (ii) Any entities whose locations are on land units so transformed
              shall have their locations set to 0,0.

        (iii) If any land unit so transformed is not property of the Land
              Bureau, it becomes property of the Land Bureau.

         (iv) If there are more Land Units of a single defined Land Type,
              Aether excepted, then there are of all other Land Types
              combined (other than Aether), then all Land Units of that
              majority Type are said to have Sente.  Land Units of all
              other defined Types are said to have Gote.

          (v) the Mapkeepor shall Pay Out:
              (a) an amount of Stems equal to the Minimum Income times
                  the Basic Officer's Salary to all Players whose location
                  has Sente;
              (b) to the owner of each Land Unit that has Sente as is not
                  owned by the Bank or the Land Bureau
                      * 3 Stems if the Weather is Plenty;
                      * 2 Stems if the Weather is Fair;
                      * 1 Stem if the Weather is Foul.

    Sente and Gote shall only be changed as defined by this Rule, on the
    fifteenth of each Nomic Month.


Upon the adoption of this Proposal, no Land Units have Sente, and all
Land Units have Gote.

Upon the adoption of this Proposal, the Land Type of (0,0) shall be
set to Black, and transferred to the Bank.

All Players that are Entitled as defined by this Proposal may,
within seven days of this Proposal passing, inform the
Mapkeepor of the identity of a single Land Unit, and a defined
Land Type for that Land Unit.
  A. If the Land Unit in question is owned by the Land Bureau and not
     In Escrow:
     1.  The Land Bureau incurs a debt to that Player for
         that Land Unit.
     1.  The Land Unit is changed to the indicated type.
     2.  The location of that Player is set to that Land Unit.
  B.  If the Land Unit in question is owned by an entity other than
      the Land Bureau or is in Escrow, the Mapkeepor shall inform
      the Player of this fact, and the Player shall have seven
      additional days from being so informed to select a different
      unit of land and have it changed and transferred as described
      here.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 -Goethe
  "Confusing Powers with Duties since 1991."



