Assessor's Voting Report
Proposals 4220 - 4221

This message is a Notice of Complacency for Proposal 4220.

Voting on 4220 - 4221 began:  Mon,  1 Oct 2001 09:42:04 -0400
Voting on 4220 - 4221 ended:  Mon,  8 Oct 2001 09:42:04 -0400

> No.    | Title                          | By           | AI | Date    | Flag
>        |                                |              |    |         | 
> 4220   | Perhaps it is Somewhat . . .   | Syllepsis    |  1 | 13Sep01 | 
> 4221   | The Neo-Oligarchy, again       | Steve        |  2 | 30Sep01 | C
> 
> D: Disinterested  C: Democratic  U: Urgent  S: Sane  I: Insane  O: Opposite

Entity          4220
------          ----
Goethe            F
root            2F+A

FOR               3
AGAINST           1
ABSTAIN           0
Present           0

AI                1
VI                3
Voters            2
Quorum            3
Adopted?          No

Entity          4221
------          ----
Goethe           2F
harvel           2F
Michael          3A
root              F
Steve            3F
Taral            5F

FOR              13
AGAINST           3
ABSTAIN           0
Present           0

AI                1
VI                4 1/3
Voters            6
Quorum            4
Adopted?         Yes

Text of adopted Proposals
-------------------------

Proposal #4221 by Steve, AI=2
The Neo-Oligarchy, again

[
 The Neo-Oligarchy differs in several respects from the current Oligarchy:
        + There is no ideal number of Oligarchs
        + All Oligarchs have 1 vote on Ordinary Proposals and a maximum of 2
          on Democratic Proposals
        + Each month, betwen 1 and 4 Oligarchy seats are auctioned off
        + Value is set by the GWotO in eir Budget (changeable without 2
          Oligarchy Objections)
        + Each month, all non-Elder Oligarchs must pay 0.1 VE within 1 week
          be removed from the Oligarchy
+ All current Oligarchs become Elder Oligarchs for 3 months (or
    until they cease to be Oligarchs); Elder Oligarchs pay no
  monthly upkeep


Amend Rule 1955 (The Grand Warden of the Oligarchy) to read:

  (a) There is an Office of Grand Warden of the Oligarchy (GWotO),
      whose responsibility it is to maintain a list of Oligarchs.
      
  (b) The Grand Warden of the Oligarchy's Report shall consist of a
      list of all Oligarchs and a list of all Elder Oligarchs (if any).
      
  (c) The GWotO shall have a budget containing the Oligarchy Auction Rate,
      which is an integer between 1 and 4 inclusive. The GWotO may amend
      eir budget Without 2 Objections from Oligarchs.


The Oligarchy Auction Rate is hereby set to 2.


Amend Rule 1932 (The Oligarchy, Power=2) to read:

  (a) The Oligarchy is the set of all Players who are Oligarchs.

  (b) An Oligarch may resign eir position in the Oligarchy by publicly
      announcing that e does so. Upon such an announcement, e ceases to
      be an Oligarch.


Create a Rule entitled "Elder Oligarchs" with Power 2 and reading:

  (a) Upon the creation of this Rule, all Players who were Low, Middle,
      or High Oligarchs when the Proposal creating this Rule was adopted
      become Oligarchs. Each of these Players is an Elder Oligarch until
      e ceases to be an Oligarch or until e has been an Elder Oligarch
      for 3 months.

  (b) The Rulekeepor may repeal this Rule Without Objection if there are
      no Elder Oligarchs.


Rename Rule 1963 (Vacancies in the Oligarchy, Power=2) to "Eligible
Oligarchs" and amend it to read:

  (a) A Player is ineligible to be an Oligarch if and only if any of the
      following are true:

        (1) e is On Hold;
        (2) e has three or more Blots;
        (3) e is the Speaker or the Speaker-Elect; or
        (4) e is the Grand Warden of the Oligarchy.

  (b) If an Oligarch becomes ineligible to be an Oligarch, the GWotO
      shall remove that Player from the Oligarchy as soon as possible.
      The GWoTO removes a Player from the Oligarchy by correctly
      announcing that at least one of the above conditions has arisen
      for that Player. The named Player ceases to be an Oligarch as of
      the GWoTO's announcement.

  (c) An Oligarch who ceases to be a Player ceases to be an Oligarch.


Amend Rule 1950/1 (Voting Power, Power=2) to read:

  (a) An entity's Voting Power on an Ordinary Proposal is as follows:

        (1) An Oligarch: one;
        (2) Any other entity: zero.

  (b) An entity's Voting Power on a Democratic Proposal is as follows:

        (1) A Player: one plus the number of Voting Entitlements
            e possesses rounded down, minus one for every five Blots
            e has, with a minimum of zero and a maximum of:
             (a) for an Oligarch, two;
             (b) for a non-Oligarch, five.
        (2) The Bank: zero;
        (3) Any other entity: as defined in the Rules, with a default
            of zero if the Rules don't specify the Voting power on a
            Democratic Proposal for that entity.

  (c) The value of an entity's Voting Power on Ordinary and Democratic
      Proposals at the beginning of each Week shall be in effect for all
      Proposals distributed during that Week. However, if a Proposal is
      made Democratic after it has been distributed, the Voting Power of
      each entity for that Proposal is redetermined at the time the
      Proposal is made Democratic.

  (d) An entity may cast as many votes as e wishes on a Proposal, up
      to the limit determined by that entity's Voting Power on
      that Proposal, with the exception that no Player may vote on an
      Ordinary Proposal unless e is an Oligarch at the time e casts
      eir vote. An entity may cast its votes in any combination e
      wishes.


Amend Rule 1449 (The Assessor) to read:

  (a) There exists the Office of Assessor, whose responsibility it is
      to receive and announce the results of Votes on Proposals.

  (b) The Assessor shall include the Voting Power of each entity on
      Ordinary and Democratic Proposals in eir Weekly Report. E may
      exclude entities whose Voting Power is zero on both Ordinary and
      Democratic Proposal from the Report.


Amend Rule 1936 (Auctioning Positions in the Oligarchy, Power=2) to read:

  (a) As soon as possible after the beginning of each month, the GWotO
      shall auction off a number of Oligarchy positions equal to the
      Oligarchy Auction Rate. The GWotO shall conduct the Auction
      according to one of the Rules-defined Auction Procedures, with the
      following modifications:

      (1) Auction Currency: the Auction Currency is Stems.

      (2) Bidders: Only non-Oligarchy Politicians who are eligible to
          be Oligarchs may bid. 

      (3) If a bidder becomes an Oligarch or becomes ineligible to be
          an Oligarch, then all eir bids in the Auction are cancelled.

      (4) Winning bids: when the Auctions ends, the winning bids are
          the N largest valid uncancelled bids made by different
          Players who are not Oligarchs, where N is the number of
          positions being Auctioned.

      (5) Defaulting: a winning bidder has one week from the time e
          is billed by the Auctioneer for eir winning bid in which to
          pay the bill. If the bill remains unpaid for more than one
          week, then the winning bidder is considered to have
          defaulted. In that case, the Auctioneer shall forgive the
          debt and penalise the defaulting bidder 2 Blots.

  (b) When a winning bidder pays the bill for eir winning bid in the
      Auction, e becomes an Oligarch.


Create a Rule entitled "Oligarchy Upkeep" with Power 2 and reading:
     
      As soon as possible after the beginning of each month, the GWotO
      shall bill each non-Elder Oligarch 0.1 VEs. The GWotO shall remove
      from the Oligarchy any Oligarch who does not pay a debt resulting
      from this Rule within 7 days of the announcement of such a debt.

[Minor adjustments]

Amend Rule 1664 (Rebellion, Power=2) by replacing the text reading:

         - All positions in the Oligarchy become vacant.        

with:

         - The GWotO shall remove all Abiding Oligarchs from the Oligarchy

and the text reading:

      The effects of a Call for Revolt shall be based on the
      Political Status and Indulgence holdings of players at the time
      of the Call.

with:

      The effects of a Call for Revolt shall be based on the
      Political Status, Oligarchy membership, and Indulgence holdings
      of players at the time of the Call.

[Remove the deadwood]

Repeal Rule 1964 (Filling Vacancies in the Oligarchy).
Repeal Rule 1937 (Distributing Positions in the Oligarchy, Power=2)
Repeal Rule 1938 (Rotation Out of the Oligarchy, Power=2)


-- 
Ed Murphy <emurphy42@socal.rr.com>          "I'm not sure I can go through
http://members.fortunecity.com/emurphy/      with it.  Leave, I mean."


