Assessor's Voting Report
Proposals 4298-4304

No.    Title                           By        AI Flags  Result     VI
----  ------------------------------  ---------- -- ----- --------- -----
4298   Massive Judicial Reform         Murphy     2  C     ADOPTED  18/0
4299   PROPOSING WANTS TO BE FREE!     Sir Toby   3  IC    FAILED    2/10
4300   INSANE STEM DISTRIBUTION        Craig      1  I     FAILED    1/1
4301   Contested Proposal for May      root       1  CT    ADOPTED   9/3
4302   Fix Parliament                  Murphy     3  C     ADOPTED  18/0
4303   Thesis Committee                OscarMeyr  1  C     ADOPTED  11/2
4304   DO YOU WANT INSANITY? (Y/N)     Sir Toby   1  C     FAILED    2/6
----  ------------------------------- ---------- -- ----- --------- -----
Flags: Disinterested;demoCratic;Urgent;Sane;Insane;Opposite;conTested;
       Parliamentary

H. Promoter,
   This is a Notice of Complacency for Proposal 4300.

H. Scorekeepor, please note:
   There are no Notices of Award contained in this message.


Voting Period Began: Thu,  9 May 2002 23:25:56 GMT
Voting Period Ended: Thu, 16 May 2002 23:25:56 GMT
Voting Mode: Unrestricted (Private for 4299, 4300, 4304).

               4298    4299    4300    4301    4302    4303    4304
               -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
Steve          5F,       ,5A           5F,     5F,     5F,     1F,
root           2F,     1F,1A   1F,       ,2A   2F,       ,2A   1F,1A
Eris           5F,                             5F,       *
Craig          1F,                             1F,     1F,
Crito            *       *               *       *       *       *
OscarMeyr      1F,       ,1A     ,1A   1F,     1F,     1F,       ,1A
Sir Toby       1F,     1F,               ,1A   1F,     1F,       ,1A
Goethe         3F,       ,3A           3F,     3F,     3F,       ,3A

FOR/AGAI.      18/0     2/10    1/1     9/3    18/0    11/2     2/6
ABSTAIN          0       0       0       0       0       0       0
VOTERS           8       6       2       6       8       8       6
QUORUM?        yes      yes     no     yes     yes     yes     yes
ADOPTED?       yes       no     no     yes     yes     yes      no


=========Text of adopted Proposals======================================

Proposal #4298 by Murphy, AI=2
Massive Judicial Reform

(AI=2, please)

[Summary:
  Rule 991 (Invoking Judgement) picks up the core of Rule 1563 (Statement of a
    CFJ), which is then repealed.
  A CFJ may be filed with the Justiciar for any reason, though this is not
    recommended in the general case.
  Rules 897 (Barring Players from Judgement), 1562 (Excess CFJs), 1868
    (Selecting a Judge), 408 (Late Judgement), 591 (Legal Judgements), 1575
    (Standards of Proof) have their language simplified.
  Rule 698 (Always an Eligible Judge) is reworded to restore eligibility to
    groups of Players at a time, rather than changing the overall eligibility
    formula at each step.
  Rule 1756 (Delinquent Judges) is repealed.
  Linked CFJs are Judged by a single Judge.
  Ineligibility by request or recusal lasts at most one month.
  Caller must submit evidence when accusing a Player of shirking a duty.
  DISMISSED is a Judgement.  Other Rules are adjusted accordingly.
  Justices become Appelate Judges, as opposed to Trial Judges.
  Rule 1447 (Final Judgement upon Appeal) is split into three parts:  how soon
    a Justice must determine, what determinations e may make, and what e is
    paid for determining on time.
  Board of Appeals may overturn and remand to original Judge for re-Judgement.
  Rule 908 (Formal Apologies) picks up the text of Rule 1832 (Failure to
    Apologize), which is then repealed.
]

Amend Rule 991 (Invoking Judgement) to read:

      Any person may request formal resolution of a dispute pertaining to
      this Nomic by submitting a Call for Judgement (CFJ) to the Clerk of
      the Courts.  The submission of a CFJ constitutes proof of the existence
      of such a dispute.

      A CFJ should be a single clearly-labeled Statement whose truth or
      falsity can be determined using logical reasoning, assuming perfect
      knowledge.  A CFJ may be accompanied by Arguments, Evidence, or
      other related material; the Judge is encouraged, but not required,
      to take notice of these things.

      The Clerk of the Courts shall publish the text of a CFJ, along with
      any additional material submitted by the Caller (including but not
      limited to Arguments and Evidence), no later than the time e announces
      the identity of the first Judge assigned to that CFJ.

Create a Rule titled "Submitting a CFJ to the Justiciar" with this text:

      A CFJ may be submitted to the Justiciar.  For such a CFJ, the
      Justiciar shall perform all duties and fulfill all roles that
      would otherwise be assigned to the Clerk of the Courts.

      All persons are encouraged to submit a CFJ to the Justiciar only
      when there is a good reason not to submit it to the Clerk of the
      Courts.

Repeal Rule 1563 (Statement of a CFJ).

Amend Rule 897 (Barring Players from Judgement) to read:

      A Player Barred from Judging a CFJ is ineligible to Judge that CFJ.

      Any Player sharing an Executor with the Caller of a CFJ is
      automatically Barred from Judging that CFJ.

      When submitting a CFJ, the Caller may Bar up to three Players from
      Judging that CFJ.

Amend Rule 1562 (Excess CFJs) to read:

      A CFJ made by a person who has previously made five or more CFJs
      during the same Nomic Week is an Excess CFJ.

      The Caller of an Excess CFJ commits the Class 1 Infraction of
      Excess CFJing, to be reported by the Clerk of the Courts.

      The Clerk of the Courts shall dismiss all Excess CFJs.  If e
      instead assigns one to a Judge, then the Judge shall Judge it,
      but the Clerk of the Courts commits the Class 2 Infraction of
      Allowing Excess CFJing, to be reported by the Justiciar.

Amend Rule 1868 (Selecting a Judge) to read:

      A CFJ is open if it has not been Judged, or if an outstanding
      judicial motion pertaining to it has been neither granted nor
      denied.  A CFJ is closed if it is not open.

      As soon as possible after becoming aware that an open CFJ has
      no Judge assigned to it, the Clerk of the Courts shall choose a
      Player eligible to Judge it, and announce them as its Trial
      Judge.  That Player remains the Trial Judge of that CFJ until e
      is recused from it or becomes ineligible to Judge it.

Amend Rule 698 (Always an Eligible Judge) to read:

      Each Active Player is eligible to Judge a given CFJ, unless a
      Rule specifically makes em ineligible.

      If the Clerk of the Courts is required to select a Judge, but -
      after taking all other Rules affecting eligibility into account
      - no Player is eligible to Judge that CFJ, then:

        a) All Active non-Barred Players become eligible to Judge
           that CFJ.

        b) If there is still no eligible Judge, then all non-frozen
           non-Barred Players become eligible to Judge that CFJ.

        c) If there is still no eligible Judge, then all non-frozen
           Players Barred by the Caller become eligible to Judge that
           CFJ.

        d) If there is still no eligible Judge, then all non-frozen
           Barred Players, other than the Caller emself, become eligible
           to Judge that CFJ.

        e) If there is still no eligible Judge, then the Caller has
           happened upon a generational ship whose members are in
           suspended animation.  The Rules suggest that the Caller
           try calling when we arrive at our destination and thaw out.

      This Rule can require Inactive Players to perform actions.

      This Rule takes precedence over all other Rules.

Amend Rule 1871 (Turns for All) to read:

      Whenever a Player is selected as Trial Judge of a CFJ, e becomes
      ineligible to be Trial Judge of any future CFJs.  Whenever there
      are no Players eligible to be Trial Judge of a CFJ, all Players
      ineligible solely because of this Rule become eligible again.

Amend Rule 1567 (Making Oneself Ineligible to Judge a CFJ) to read:

      A Player makes emself ineligible to be the Judge of a specific
      CFJ or type of CFJ by informing the Clerk of the Courts that e
      does so.  Such a notice remains in effect for one month, or until
      the Player informs the Clerk of the Courts that it is no longer
      in effect, whichever is soonest.

      If a Player makes emself ineligible to be a Judge of a CFJ for
      which e has already been selected as Judge, e commits the Class
      0.1 Infraction of Shirking Judgeship, to be reported by the Clerk
      of the Courts.

Repeal Rule 1756 (Delinquent Judges).

Create a Rule titled "Linked Statements" with this text:

      Linked CFJs are multiple Calls for Judgement submitted in a single
      message and clearly labelled as Linked CFJs.

      The Clerk of the Courts shall assign a Judge to a set of Linked CFJs,
      as if they were a single CFJ.  The Judge must be eligible to Judge
      each of the Linked CFJs, and is simultaneously assigned as Judge of
      each of the Linked CFJs.

      The Judge of a set of Linked CFJs shall submit eir Judgement of each
      of those CFJs in a single message.

      If one or more Linked CFJs are Excess CFJs, then the Clerk of the
      Courts shall either assign them all or dismiss them all, at eir
      discretion.  If e assigns them all, then e does not commit Allowing
      Excess CFJing by doing so, Rules to the contrary notwithstanding.

      If one or more Linked CFJs beyond the first are unrelated in subject
      matter to the first, then a Trial Judge may remand those CFJs to the
      Clerk of the Courts; e ceases to be Judge of those CFJs.  The Clerk
      of the Courts shall either treat those CFJs as Linked (to each other)
      or not Linked, as e sees fit.  In either case, those CFJs are no
      longer Linked to any of the non-remanded CFJs.

Create a Rule titled "Transfer of Jurisdiction" with this text:

      The Judge of a CFJ (the First Case) may transfer it to the Judge of
      another CFJ (the Second Case), if all of the following are true:

        a) The Second Judge is eligible to Judge the First Case (or is
           ineligible solely due to the Rule "Turns for All").
        b) The First Judge announces the transfer.
        c) The Second Judge consents to the transfer within a week after
           it is announced.

      The First CFJ becomes assigned to the Second Judge, and ceases to be
      assigned to the First Judge.

      The First CFJ becomes Linked to the Second CFJ, and to any CFJs to
      which the Second CFJ had been Linked.  It ceases to be Linked to any
      other CFJs.

Amend Rule 408 (Late Judgement) to read:

      For each Judge assigned to a CFJ, eir Deliberation Period begins
      when the Clerk of the Courts announces eir assignment, and lasts
      seven days; eir Overtime Period begins when eir Deliberation Period
      ends, and lasts seven days.

      A Judge who Judges a CFJ during eir Overtime Period commits the
      Class 0.5 Infraction of Judging a Bit Late, to be reported by the
      Clerk of the Courts.

      During a Judge's Overtime Period, if e has not yet Judged the CFJ,
      then the Clerk of the Courts may recuse the Judge by announcing that
      e does so.  At the end of a Judge's Overtime Period, if e has not yet
      Judged the CFJ, then e is automatically recused.

      A Judge recused according to this Rule commits the Class 3
      Infraction of Failure to Judge, to be reported by the Clerk of
      the Courts.  E becomes ineligible to Judge any CFJ for one month,
      or until e publicly requests to become eligible again, whichever
      is soonest.

Amend Rule 591 (Legal Judgements) to read:

      The Judge of a CFJ Judges it by submitting eir Judgement to the
      Clerk of the Courts.  "Decision", "Finding", and "Response" are
      unambiguous synonyms for "Judgement".

      For a Trial Judge, a Judgement is exactly one of the following:
      TRUE, FALSE, or DISMISSED.

      As soon as possible after receiving a Judgement, the Clerk of
      the Courts shall publish it, along with any arguments, evidence,
      or other material included with the Judgement.

Amend Rule 1575 (Standards of Proof) to read:

      Unless otherwise specified, all Judgements shall be consistent
      with the preponderance of the evidence.

      A Judge shall not find that a Player has failed to perform a duty
      unless the preponderance of evidence provided by the Caller supports
      the claim.

      A Judge shall not find that a Player has violated a Rule or committed
      a Crime unless the evidence provided by the Caller places its certainty
      beyond reasonable doubt.  Furthermore, a Judge shall not find that a
      Player committed a Crime if that Player reasonably believed that
      eir action or inaction was not a Crime at the time it occurred.

Amend Rule 1565 (Dismissal of a CFJ) to read:

      A Judgement of DISMISSED should be delivered if and only if one or
      more of the following is true:

        i) The CFJ does not contain a single clearly-identified Statement.

       ii) After a reasonable effort to obtain all relevant information,
           the Judge can neither determine the Statement to be true nor
           determine it to be false.

      iii) The Statement does not relate to a matter relevant to the
           Rules.

       iv) The CFJ lacks standing, as defined elsewhere.

Amend Rule 502 (Salary for Judges) to read:

      As soon as possible after a Judgement is delivered during the
      Deliberation Period, the Clerk of the Courts shall pay out the
      Judicial Salary to the Judge.

      As soon as possible after a Judgement is overturned on appeal,
      the Clerk of the Courts shall bill the Judge for the Judicial
      Salary (if any) that was paid out to em for that Judgement.

Amend Rule 1804 (Appeal of Judicial Orders) to read:

      As soon as possible after a Judicial Order is Appealed, the
      Clerk of the Courts shall stay it.  If the Appeal is sustained,
      then the Board of Appeals shall vacate this stay as soon as
      possible.

      In the Appeal of a Judicial Order, the Board of Appeals shall
      consider whether the Order was properly and validly executed.

Amend Rule 1830 (No Compulsion of Judges) to read:

      Any Order to Compel directed to a Judge, or requiring the
      performance of a duty required of a Player because that Player
      is a Judge, is invalid.

      Any CFJ alleging that a Judgement is incorrect, or that a Judge
      has failed to perform a judicial duty, lacks standing.  Such a
      claim should instead be pursued via Appeal.

Amend Rule 1365 (Concurring and Dissenting Opinions) by replacing
each instance of "Judgement or Dismissal" with "Judgement".

Amend Rule 911 (The Board of Appeals) to read:

      When an Appeal is initiated, a Board of Appeals shall be selected
      to reach a decision about the subject of the Appeal.

      A Board of Appeals consists of three Appelate Judges.  Any Judge
      assigned according to this Rule is an Appelate Judge.

      A Board of Appeals is selected when the Clerk of the Courts
      correctly announces the identity of all Appelate Judges, determined
      as follows:

        a) The Speaker is selected, if eligible.
        b) The Clerk of the Courts is selected, if eligible.
        c) The Justiciar is selected, if eligible.
        d) Any remaining positions are filled by random selection by the
           Clerk of the Courts from all remaining eligible Players.

      A Player is ineligible for selection if any of the following is
      true:

        i) E has already been selected for that Board.
       ii) E has been dismissed from that Board.
      iii) E has been Trial Judge of the subject of the Appeal.
       iv) E is ineligible to Judge the CFJ at the time of selection.
        v) E is not Active.

      An Appelate Judge may appoint another eligible Player as eir
      replacement by informing the Clerk of the Courts, provided the
      Player consents.

      As soon as possible after an Appelate Judge is recused, the Clerk of
      the Courts shall randomly select an eligible Player to replace em.

      The last Appelate Judge selected is the Lead Judge for that Board.  If
      the Lead Judge is replaced, then the replacement becomes Lead Judge.

Repeal Rule 1833 (Lead Justice).

Amend Rule 1570 (Announcement of Appeal) to read:

      As soon as possible after an Appeal is initiated, the Clerk of
      the Courts shall announce the subject of the Appeal.

      As soon as possible after a Player becomes an Appelate Judge or
      ceases to be an Appelate Judge, the Clerk of the Courts shall
      announce the change.

Amend Rule 1564 (Initiating Appeals) to read:

      The following are subject to Appeal:

        a) The Judgement of a Trial Judge.
        b) The grant or denial of a Motion.
        c) The execution of a Judicial Order.
        d) A claim that a Trial Judge has failed to perform a required
           judicial duty.

      A subject is Appealed when any of the following occurs:

        i) Three Players Appeal it.
       ii) A Player Appeals a Judicial Order binding em.
      iii) A Player Appeals a Trial Judgement convicting em of a Crime.

Amend Rule 1447 (Final Judgement upon Appeal) to read:

      For an Appelate Judge, a Judgement is exactly one of the following:
      SUSTAIN or OVERTURN.  Other Rules may modify this, based on the
      subject of the Appeal.

Create a new Rule titled "Appelate Determinations" with this text:

      As soon as possible after all members of a Board of Appeals have
      submitted eir Judgement, the Clerk of the Courts shall announce
      that this has happened.

      If a majority of the Appelate Judges Judge SUSTAIN, then the subject
      of the Appeal is sustained.  Otherwise, it is overturned.  The Board
      of Appeals shall execute whatever Appelate Orders are necessary to
      enforce its determination.

Amend Rule 1693 (Appeal of a Judgement) to read:

      If a Judgement of TRUE or FALSE is Appealed, the Board of Appeals
      shall consider the correctness of that Judgement.

      If a Judgement of DISMISSED is Appealed, the Board shall not
      consider the truth or falsity of the original CFJ; they
      shall only consider whether a Judgement of DISMISSED should
      have been delivered.

      For an Appelate Judge assigned to the Appeal of a Judgement, a
      Judgement is exactly one of the following:  SUSTAIN, REVERSE,
      REASSIGN, or REMAND.

      When a Judgement is overturned:

        a) If a majority of the Appelate Judges Judge REVERSE, then the
           CFJ shall be treated as if it were Judged normally, with the
           Judgement being that which a majority of the Appelate Judges
           agree on.

        b) If a majority of the Appelate Judges Judge REASSIGN, then the
           original Judgement is ignored, the original Judge is recused,
           and the Clerk of the Courts shall reassign the CFJ to a new
           Judge in the same fashion as it was originally assigned.  The
           new Judge cannot make the same Judgement as the original Judge
           for the same reason.

        c) If a majority of the Appelate Judges Judge REMAND, then the
           original Judgement shall be ignored, and the Clerk of the
           Courts shall reassign the CFJ to the original Judge as if it
           were being originally assigned. The Judge may not make the
           same Judgement for the same reason.

        d) If none of the above is true, then the CFJ shall be reassigned
           as described above.

Repeal Rule 1694 (Appeal of a Dismissal).

Amend Rule 1805 (Appellate Orders) by replacing each occurrence of "Lead
Justice" with "Lead Judge".

Repeal Rule 1695 (Appeals of Judicial Orders).

Amend Rule 908 (Formal Apologies) by appending to it the text of Rule
1832 (Failure to Apologize).

Repeal Rule 1832 (Failure to Apologize).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal #4301 by root, AI=1
Contested Proposal for May

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal #4302 by Murphy, AI=3
Fix Parliament

(AI=3, please)

Amend Rule 955 (Votes Required to Adopt a Proposal) by replacing this text:

      (b) If the Voting Index is greater than the Adoption Index for
          the Proposal (or if both equal Unanimity), and if Quorum for
          the Proposal is achieved, then that Proposal is adopted.
          Otherwise, it fails.

with this text:

      (b) If the Voting Index is greater than or equal to the Adoption
          Index for the Proposal, and if Quorum for the Proposal is
          achieved, then that Proposal is adopted.  Otherwise, it fails.

[This makes Parliamentary Proposals more interesting by allowing them
 to be adopted with 2F 1A, assuming AI=2.  AI>2 still needs Unanimity.]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposal #4303 by OscarMeyr, AI=1
Thesis Committee

Change Rule 1370 to read as follows:

      A person becomes a Candidate for a Degree when e publishes
      a Thesis, authored by emself, along with a statement explicitly
      indicating that the Thesis is being submitted with the intent
      to qualify for a particular Degree.

      If the Candidate is a Player, e may choose the first member
      of eir Thesis Committee, called eir Chair; for non-players,
      the Speaker will serve as Chair.  The Chair's Opposite is
      defined as the Player who most often voted in the opposite
      manner of the Chair in the last quarter; the Opposite becomes
      the second committee member.  The Chair and eir Opposite
      will select, as soon as possible, and by mutual agreement, the
      third member of the committee.

      The Chair of the Thesis Committee for a particular Candidate
      may grant that Degree to the Candidate if and only if:

      * the Candidate has satisfied all prerequisites in the rules for
        the award of that Degree;

      * a majority of members of the Thesis Committee agree that the
        Thesis produced by the Candidate is worthy of the Degree to be
        granted; and

      * fewer than seven years have passed since the time the
        Thesis Committee was formed.

      The Rulekeepor shall retain a copy of each Thesis approved
       by its Thesis Committee.

      The Degree of Associate of Nomic requires a Thesis of at least
      150 words.  A Candidate who already holds an AN Degree
      receives a credit of 100 words towards the Thesis requirement for
      any higher Degree, unless the Candidate also holds a BN Degree.

      The Degree of Bachelor of Nomic requires a Thesis of at least
      500 words.  A Candidate who already holds an BN Degree
      receives a credit of 250 words towards the Thesis requirement for
      any higher Degree.

      The Degree of Doctor of Nomic History requires a Thesis of
      at least 750 words and containing a narrative covering significant

      events which have occurred in Agora within the eight weeks
      prior to the publication of the Thesis.

      The Degree of Master of Nomic requires a Thesis of at least
      750 words.

      The Degree of Doctor of Nomic Philosophy requires a Thesis
      of at least 1000 words, and that the candidate has also published
      an additional creative work authored by emself whose topic or
      theme is related to Agora or Nomic in general.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-Assessor Goethe

