The rules of Rishonomic


Immutable Rules
------------------------------------------------------------------------
101. Obey The Rules
All players must always abide by all the rules then in effect, in the
form in which they are then in effect, and interpreted in accordance 
with currently existing game custom.  Until such time as they are 
legally transmuted, Rules 101-115 are immutable, and Rules 201-219 are 
mutable.

102. Mutables and Immutables
Initialy rules in the 100's are immutable and rules in the 
200's are mutable. Rules subsequently enacted of transmuted (that
is, changed from immutable to mutable or vice versa) may be immutable 
or mutable regardless of their numbers, and rules in the Initial Ruleset
may be transmuter regardless of their numbers.



104. Adopting Proposals
All proposals made in the proper way shall be voted on.  Three conditions
must be satisfied for a proposal to be adopted: (1) a quorum must have
been achieved; (2) the required number of votes must have been cast in
favor of the proposal; and (3) the prescribed voting period must have
elapsed.

105. Proposals Must Be Written Down
Any proposed rule change must be written down (or otherwise communicated
in print media) before it is voted on.  If adopted, it must guide play in
the form in which it was voted on.

106. When Proposals Can Take Effect
A rule change will take effect when either the prescribed voting peroid
has elapsed, or all players have cast their vote, whichever is first.  
No rule change may have retroactive application.

107. Numbering Proposals
The Speaker shall give each proposed rule change an ordinal number for 
reference.  The numbers shall begin with 301, and each  rule change 
proposed in the proper way shall receive the next successive ordinal, 
whether or not the proposal is adopted.  The effective ordinal number 
of a rule is the ordinal number of the most recent change to that rule.

109. Making Proposals
The proper way to make a proposal is to send it by electronic mail to
the current Speaker.  The Speaker will then distribute the proposal to 
all Players.  The prescribed voting period begins at the moment that 
the proposal is distributed by the Speaker.


111. Forfeiting The Game
A player always has the option to forfeit the game rather than continue to
play or incur a game penalty.  No penalty worse than losing, in the
judgement of the player to incur it, may be imposed.

112. At Least One Mutable Rule
There must always be at least one mutable rule.  The adoption of rule
changes must never become completely inpermissible.

113. Rule Changes That Affect Rule Changing Rules
Rule changes that affect rules needed to allow or apply rule changes are
as permissible as other rule changes.  Even rule changes that amend or
repeal their own authority are permissible.  No rule change is
impermissible solely on account of the self-reference or self-application
of a rule.

114. Voting Options
Players may vote either for or against any proposal during the prescribed 
voting period.  Players should send their vote by electronic mail to 
the Speaker before the end of the voting period.  Players who do not vote 
within the prescribed period shall be deemed to have abstained.

115. Permissibility Of The Unprohibited
Whatever is not explicitly prohibited or regulated by a rule is permitted
and unregulated, with the sole exception of changing the rules, which is
permitted only when a rule or set of rules explicitly or implicitly
permits it.


Mutable Rules.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

108. Mutable/Immutable Inconsistencies
Mutable rules that are inconsistent in some way with some immutable rule
(except by proposing to transmute it) are wholly void and without effect.
They do not implicitly transmute immutable rules into mutable rules and at
the same time amend them.  Rule changes that transmute immutable rules
into mutable rules will be effective only if they explicitly state their
transmuting effect.


201. Quorum
Quorum is defined to be 50% of the active registered players.

203. Required Number Of Votes
The number of votes required to pass a proposal is three-fifths of the votes
legally cast within the prescribed voting period.


205. The Prescribed Voting Period
The prescribed voting period on a proposal is seven days, starting from
the moment that the proposal is distributed by the Speaker.

206. When Proposals Take Effect
An adopted proposal takes effect at the moment the Speaker anounces it.


207. Scoring When A Proposal Is Adopted
When a proposed rule change is adopted, those players who voted against it
receive 5 points each.  A player whose proposed rule change is adopted
also receives 10 points.

208. Scoring When A Proposal Is Defeated
When a proposed rule change is defeated, the player who proposed it loses
10 points and all who voted for it gain 5 points.


209. Required Number Of Points To Win
The winner is the first player to achieve a score of 180 points.
If more than one player achieves this condition simultaneously, all 
such Players win.
When a game ends inthis manner:
 - if there is only one winner, that Player becomes the Speaker, and the old
 Speaker ceases to be Speaker.
 - If there is more than one winner, the Speaker selects randomly
 one of the players,who becomes the new Speaker, and the ld Speaker 
 ceases to be Speaker.
 - All players' scores are reset to 0
 - a new game is begun. All the rules and proposed rule changes retain the
 status they had atthe end of the old game.


210. Resolving Conflicts
If two or more mutable rules conflict with one another, or if two or more
immutable rules conflict with one another, then the rule with the lowest
effective ordinal number takes precedence.  If at least one of the rules
in conflict explicitly says of itself that it defers to another rule (or
type of rule) or takes precedence over another rule (or type of rule),
then such provisions shall supercede the numerical method for determining
precedence.  If two or more rules claim to take precedence over one
another, or to defer to one another, then the numerical method must again
govern.

211. Invoking Judgement
Any player who has a question or complaint about any matter concerning the
laws and their interpretation may email their statement to the Speaker, 
who will then distribute it to the rest of the Players.  A call for 
judgement is then incurred on that statement.

212. Selecting A Judge
When Judgement has been called for, a Judge is randomly selected from
among the other registered players by the Speaker.  The player selected 
has 3 days in which to accept or refuse the appointment by posting to the 
Speaker.  Any player who does not respond to selection in 3 days 
is deemed to have refused appointment.  If a
selected player refuses appointment, then a further random selection is
made from the remaining pool.

213. Delivering Judgement
Having accepted the appointment, a Judge has exactly one week in which to
post an official Judgement.  A Judge who fails to deliver Judgement within
that period is penalized 10 points.

214. Three Possible Judgements
There are only three possible Judgements: (1) True; (2) False; or (3)
Undecided.  A Judgement may be accompanied by reasons an arguments, but
any such reasons and arguments  form no part of the official Judgement
itself.

215. Judgements Must Accord With The Rules
All Judgements must be in accordance with all the rules then in effect.
When the rules are silent, inconsistent, or unclear on the statement in
question, however, then the Judge shall consider currently existing game
custom and the spirit of the game in reaching a decision.

216. Judgements Are Not Rules
If a statement on which Judgement has been called is Judged to be true,
and that Judgement is not overruled, it does not thereby become a rule, or
any part of a rule.  It merely becomes an explicit part of currently
accepted game custom.

217. Overturning Judgements
At any time in the week following the posting of a Judgement of "true" or
"false", any player may propose that the Judgement be  overruled, i.e.
changed to "undecided".  If that proposal is adopted, according to
whatever rules are currently in effect for the adoption of proposals, then
the Judgement is overruled, and the Judge who made it penalized 20 points.

218. Registered Players
A player is any person who is registered as a player.  No person may
register as a player more than once concurrently.  Anyone is allowed to
observe the game and parrticipate in discussion of any issue, but no
person who is not a player may make a proposal, or vote on any proposal,
or call for judgement, or judge, or score  points, or win the game.

219. Winning By Paradox
If the rules are changed so that further play is impossible, or if the
legality of some action cannot be determined with finality, or if some
action appears equally legal and illegal, then a player may call for
judgement on a statement to that effect.  If the statement is judged true,
and the judgement is not overruled, then the player who called for
judgement is declared the winner of the game.  This rule takes precedence
over every other rule for determining the winner of the game.


302. Retracting Proposals
 A player may retract any proposal he has authored, provided the voting
period for the proposal has not elapsed yet, by sending a public message.
A proposal which has been retracted this way becomes invalid and is
removed from consideration.
This rule takes precedence over Rule 104.


305. Public and Private voting
If at least 2/5 of the players voted on an given proposal via the public
forum, and more than two days remain until the end of the voting period on
that proposal, then the Speaker must publish all the votes cast so far on
that proposal. This has no effect on the end of the proposal's voting
period.

307. 
Any text within a proposal which is enclosed within "[" and "]" shall be
considered a comment, and will not be included in any rule creation or
modification.

308.
If a player's score is a triangular number, his score shall be raised to
the next greatest prime number.


311
Rishon accepts the existance of other nomics, internomic and extra nomic
entities in as much as is required to join the metagame of Internomic.
Furthermore, Rishon shall attempt to join the Game of InterNomic as a
non-voting member.

Until this rule is amended to provide for a nonspecific player enitity
liason, Rishon's liason to InterNomic shall be her speaker.


312.
Isolationism is good.

Rishon is the One True Nomic.  No other nomic  game shall ever be greater
than Rishon.  No other nomic game may claim to be greater than Rishon. Any
Nomic game that violates the previous two sentences shall be considered a
sworn enemy of Rishonomic.

Ackanomic is a sworn enemy of Rishonomic. Thring is a sworn Enemy of
Rishonomic.  Pumpkin Patch Nomic is a sworn enemy of Rishonomic.  Agora is
not, because they are a generally boring lot.

It is considered good form to chide Sworn Enemies any time the oppritunity
presents itself.





 
314
snowgod

The nomic entity known as the Voting Gnome exists.  It was once a citizen
of Ackanomic, but left when the players there attempted to murder it
several times.

The Voting Gnome will always be possesed by the player who has the highest
percentage of his submitted proposals fail.  This player shall be known as
the Gnome Buddy.  A player named Wayne, if such a person should exist, may
never be the Gnome Buddy.

The Voting Gnome shall be allowed to vote exactly once on every proposal.
He shall vote in exactly the same manner as the Gnome Buddy, unless teh
Gnome Buddy abstains on a proposal, in which case the Gnome shall vote YES.

The Voting Gnome is a refugee.  Special care should be taken to protect him
from the citizens of Ackanomic and their murderous attempts.



315
Niccolo Flychuck

Rishonomic resides on the inside of a Dyson Cylinder with a radius of 1AU.
The Cylinder rotaes around its central axis in order to provide gravity
for the inhabitants of the cylinder. Around the edges of the cylinder
there are walls a thousand kilometers high, prevent the atmosphere
escaping the Cylinder. At the center of the cylinder is the sun.
The Dyson Cylinder is known to its inhabitants as the Great Galil.


316 (previoulsly 203)
The required number of votes to pass a proposal to create, ammend or
repeal a Mutable rule is 3/5 of the votes legally cast within the voting
period.
The required number of votes to pass a proposal to create, ammend or
repeal an Immutable rule is 3/4 of the votes legally cast within the
voting period.
A proposal to create a new rule, creates a new Immutable rule if and only
if it explictly states the fact that it is creating an Immutable rule.
The required number of votes to pass a proposal to transmute an Immutable
rule to Mutable or vice versa is 3/4 of the votes legally cast within the
voting period.


317. (previously 103) What Is A Rule Change?
A rule change must be one of the following: (1) the enactment repeal, or
amendment of a mutable rule; (2) the enactment, repeal, or amendment of an
amendment; or (3) the transmutation of an immutable rule into a mutable
rule, or vice versa.


 318
Apollo

     
      -A. There is a Dragon that hunts in Rishonomic...
      it attacks the game on the 30th of each month.
      on the 30th of each month, each active player in the game loses 2-10
     points, in random
      unless the game has a DRAGONKEEPER.
     
     
      -B To beacome a DRAGONKEEPER:
     
         1. Any active player in the game can try to become a
            DRAGONKEEPER.
     
         2. The player must search for the dragon.
     
         3. The player must drive it away with the help of other players
            in the game.
     
     
            2. -The dragon can be in one of five places: the Forest, the
                Lake, the Mountains, the Old Castle and. the Dungeon.
            to find attemp to find it, the DRAGONSEEKER has to mail the
            speaker and tell him were he looks for the dragon.
     
             - The speaker will make a random check to see were is the
     dragon (the dragon will stay in that place for the rest of that
     day).
     
            - The Speaker will post a letter telling who tried to find the
      dragon, and were he searched for it, so that other players won't
     search in the same place ( at the same day ).
     
               - Any player can search for the dragon only one time a day.
     
     
              - The Dragon moves around. That is, if it wasn't on location
     
            1 on this day, it doesn't mean it won't be there tomorrow.
     
               - If the player have found the dragon he can try to drive
            it away.
     
     
            3. - To drive the dragon away the DRAGONSEEKER has to write an
     
      article, that will unite the other player against the dragon.
     
               - The DRAGONSEEKER has time until the end of the 29th of
     the
      month to write the article. At the end of the 30th the DRAGON will
     strike
      again.
     
               - The players will vote on the article: either its good,
     and
      that player will fight, or its not good and he wont fight with the
      DRAGONSEEKER. if more then 50% of the active players in the game
     will vote
      yes( they will fight), then the DRAGONSEEKER with the help of all
     the
      players that voted yes will drive the dragon away. and beacome the
      DRAGONKEEPER.
     
               - The voting runs until until the END of the 30th, at
      00:00am the DRAGON will strike. The players will vote the same way
     they
      vote for rules..they will replay to the article and say if they'l
     fight or
      not.
     
     
      -C Scoring:
     
               - If the DRAGONSEEKER made it with step 1. he'll get 2
     points
      (that is if he found the dragon.)
     
               - If the DRAGONSEEKER failed with the 2nd step he'll lose
     10
      points. (that is if he failed to drive the DRAGON away).
     
               - If he made it, and beacame the DRAGONKEEPER he'll get 20
      points.
     
              - If the DRAGON is driven away, all the players that voted
     for
      the DRAGONSEEKER will get 3 points and all the players the voted
     against
      him will lose 1 point.
     
               - If the DRAGONSEEKER failed the players the votes against
      him will get 2 points.
     
     
      -D Once the game has a DRAGONKEEPER the dragon wont come for 2
     monthes.
     
      -E After 2 monthes the dragon will come back and strike on the 30th
     of the
      month.
     
      -F The DRAGONKEEPER MUST try again to drive it away:
     
               - He write a NEW article that will unite the players
      and will drive the DRAGON away...the same way he did before. the
     same
      rules apply. (from section B-3)
     
               - If the DRAGONKEEPER didnt write the article in time he'll
     
      lose his job as the DRAGONKEPPER and lose 10 points. (the time is
     the end
      of the 29th of the month), and the dragon will be back again. and
     will
      strike on evry 30th, until the game will have a DRAGONKEEPER.
     
               - If the DRAGONKEEPER failed to drive the dragon away then
      he'll no longer be the DRAGONKEPPER and the rules above apply..(from
     rule
      B-3), and the DRAGON will be back again.
     
      -G There can be only one DRAGONKEPPER at a time.
     
     
320 (previously 204). One Player One Vote
Each player has exactly one vote per proposal.


322 We Love Big Brother
You can call me Al

The Speaker must attempt, in good faith, to report the results of votes
and
changes to the ruleset as quickly as possible. Efficiency is key to
running
a good game of Nomic, and - being King of All Nomics - Rishonomic has some
responsibility to be a model of proper behavior, thereby shaming her
enemies
and leading her allies into glory and - above all - EFFICIENCY.




323 The Speakership
When a Player has won the game, she may decline the Speakership, in which
case the title of Speaker is retained by the Player who last held it (i.e.
the winner of the previous game). The declining Player may do so in a
public
message, giving the reasoning for her decision. Should the old Speaker not
wish to retain the title, the she shall randomly assign the Speakership to
some Player, except the one that most recently declined the Speakership.
This Player may also decline, which causes the process of assignment to
repeat until some Player has been assigned the Speakership. The old
Speaker
then ceases to be Speaker.

A public action is defined as a message posted to the main Rishonomic
list,
describing unambiguously some action.



326 The need for...Begonias?
You can call me Al

A Player may designate her proposal as Speedy. A proposal so designated
has
a voting period of only 3 days. This rule takes precedence over rule 205.



327
Varuna

Unproposal:

When a proposal is  made to alter a rule and the alteration is only
artificial such as deleting a word or switching some words around then
the proposal may not count as a proposal, a player may propose to
"unpropose" the proposal .

Explanation: a proposal is made and voted on.
The "unproposal" is made while the proposal is still valid.
Both are voted on.

1.If the proposal passes and the "unproposal" doesnt then the proposal
maker gets his points .
2.If the proposal passes and the unproposal passes then the proposal is
accepted but no points are allocated to the proposal maker,the
"unproposal" maker gets points for his unproposal as usual for a
proposal.
3.If the proposal fails then the unproposal is dumped.

Note:the speaker will accept only the first "unproposal" on a specific
proposal.
 
(this rule is proposed in order to stop all those rule lawyers from
turning the game into something boring and to help point energies
towards ingenuity).



328
snowgod

Any rule that contains any of the words contained within parenthesis
(grapefruit cranberry groundhog greek belgium) can only be amended,
renumbered, or repealed by a proposal that contains any of the words
within
these little pointy things <tramp punxsuawney moof spring onita>, except
for this rule which can only be modified by a proposal containing the
phrase "I am wearing a green jackrabbit" No proposal may contain the word
"slink".

Any proposal that violates the conditions set forth in Paragraph One is
invalid and will be removed from consideration.


329
Varuna

Minimum rule:

The minimum score a player may have is 0.

Note : this rule is meant to encourage  players to keep trying to win
the game.


332 (previously 110). Winning The Game
The state of affairs that constitutes winning the game may not be changed
from achieving n points to any other state of affairs.  However, the
magnitude of n and the means of earning points may be changed, and rules
that establish a winner when play cannot be continued may be enacted and
(while mutable) be amended or repealed.  



 333 The Proposed Paradox
 Apollo


The vote of a person who proposed a new rule will be automaticly No,
unless he publicly votes yes for it.



 334 sudden wind
Apollo


 on the 1st of each month, a random player of the game will get 3 points,
unless that player is the leading player (has the most points) in that
case he will lose 5 points. if the random player is the player that has
the lowest score he will get 5 points..
