     THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
     VOLUME 46, ISSUE 4
     Wednesday edition
     December 15, 1999


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Deference Deprecation" by harvel - Proposal 3950 adopted 12/7
  Remove "defer" or some form of it from Rules 459, 1023, 1556, 1874,
    1728, 1795, 1439, 1614, and 1531.

"Fix Altruism" by Elysion (on behalf of Murphy) - Proposal 3954 adopted
12/12
  An Order requiring a Player to do something by a certain time does
    not trigger Contempt by Inaction if the Order is satisfied in some
    other way before that time.
  Half of Murphy's Blots are expunged.

"Fix 1893" by Blob - Proposal 1893 adopted 12/12
  Remove an obsolete reference to the Chancellor.

"Free Monetary Policy" by Blob - Proposal 3953 adopted 12/12
  Currency Recordkeepors assessing taxes:  Without 5 Objections is changed
    to With 2 Cabinet Supporters.  Without 5 Objections is eliminated if the
    Recordkeepor is a Cabinet member emself.
  Minting new Currency:  Without Objection is changed to With 2 Cabinet
    Supporters.  Without Objection is eliminated if the Recordkeepor is a
    Cabinet member emself.

"Real Rebels" by Elysion - Proposal 3951 adopted 12/7
  Rebels keep eir Offices after a successful Revolt.
  Rebels pay no taxes.
  Rebelliousness can be changed only once per month.
  Inciting to Riot is checked at the beginning of each month, is 2
    Blots, and is applied to all Rebellious players.
  The Indulgence tax resulting from a successful Rebellion is applied
    by the Herald (not the Registrar), and does affect that Rebellion's
    Rebels (but not Robespierre).

"Ssh, It's a Secret" by Blob - Proposal 3952 adopted 12/12
  Information defined by the Rules as Secret is private with respect to
    the Freedom of Information Act, and revealing it is a Crime unless
    explicitly permitted or required by the Rules.
  If the mode of voting is Private or Unrestricted, then votes cast
    privately are secret until the Voting Period ends.

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Discarding the Chaff" by Wes
  Repeal Rule 1643 (Statements of Policy).

"Fix Debt Voting" by Steve
  Reword Rules 1823 and 1824 to state that Voting POs are to bill for
    Votes, not pay for Votes.

"Important Proposals" by t
  Proposals in the Queue may be made Important with 2 Supporters.
  Failing to Vote on an Important Proposal is an Infraction, unless you
    were unable to Vote on it, or were On Hold when the Voting Period
    began.  The Infraction is larger if the Proposal fails Quorum.

"Issues" by harvel
  An Issue is a Proposal, Election, or Referendum.  This new term is
    used to simplify some Rules.
  Rule 879 (Quorum) explicitly allows other Rules to define ways for
    Players to count towards Proposal Quorum without Voting.

"This Isn't a Scam, Is It?" by Speaker Elysion
  Repeal Rule 1581 (Quarterly Speaker Change).


PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"CFJ streamlining" by Wes
  A CFJ's Deliberation Period explicitly begins with the CotC's
   announcement of a Judge.
  A Player fined for Judging Late becomes ineligible to Judge further
    CFJs, till e requests otherwise in the PF.
  A Player is fined for Judging a Bit Late even if e Judges or dismisses
    the CFJ before the CotC can apply the fine.
  A Judge ceases to be assigned to a CFJ if e becomes ineligible for
    any reason.
  Failing to grant or deny a Motion within a week is grounds for the CotC
    to Recuse and assign a new Judge.
  A Motion for a closed case whose Judge is no longer an Active Player
    is assigned to a new Judge.

"Freeing the Market ... for a price" by Wes
  A Player may change eir Associated Basic Currency at any time, but it
    costs 50 Stems at the times that are currently prohibited.

"Stem Conversion Rates" by t
  Each Basic Currency has a Stem Conversion Rate (normally 1, minimum
    0.01).  You get that many units of that Basic Currency per Stem.
  If the Payroll Clerk is a member of the Cabinet, e may change SCRs at
    most once per week, and at most 10% up or down at a time.

"Trophies Enhanced" by t
  Trophies have a creator, owner, and optional inscription.
  Trophies may be created (or adjusted or destroyed) by Contests with
    at least three Contestants, by paying a 1 VT fee.
  Trophies may be created by the adoption of a Proposal.
  A sample Trophy is created.

"Wins, Wins, Wins" by Wes
  Points are a Currency transferred only when the Rules explicitly allow
    or require that Points be Awarded or Penalized.
  Having at least 200 Points is a Win Condition, upon which all Points
    are destroyed and all Point POs are vacated.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1183 "The Infraction of Debt Voting cannot be committed by any Player."
[FALSE]  11/26     Called by Steve
         11/28     Assigned to Wes, who Judges FALSE
         11/28-29  Appealed by Steve, harvel, and Blob
         12/2-9    Appeal assigned to Kolja A., Elysion, and Murphy,
                     who move to SUSTAIN in a split decision
                     [Kolja's assignation to the Board may be incorrect;
                      see CFJ 1188]
         Caller's argument (summary):  Voting POs are executed for the
           direct purpose of billing for votes, not paying for them;
           thus Rule 1824 fails to identify such POs (as intended) as a
           trigger for Debt Voting.
         Judge's refutation (summary):  Voting POs are executed for the
           eventual purpose of causing votes to be paid for.

CFJ 1184 "Any Player who is subject to the jurisdiction of the civil
[FALSE]   courts of the United States of America and simultaneously a
          director, officer, employee, or agent of an American public
          institution, as defined by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (as
          amended), is required as a matter of law to observe the
          Constitutional requirements of due process in the course of
          conducting eir business as a Judge, Justice, or Officer, or
          as the Speaker."
         12/6    Called by Kelly
         12/7-9  Assigned to Chuck, who Judges FALSE
         Judge's refutation (summary):  No Rule places this restriction
           on Players, so Rule 101 allows a Player to ignore this
           restriction, regardless of what United States law says.

CFJ 1185 "Agora is an independent nation and not bound by the laws of
[FALSE]   any other State in existence."
         12/7    Called by t
         12/7-8  Assigned to Crito, who Judges FALSE
         Caller's arguments (summary):  Rule 101 causes the latter
           clause of the Statement to be true.
         Judge's refutation (summary):  But not the former clause.

CFJ 1186 "The Clerk of the Courts is required by Rule 1868 to select a
[TRUE]    Judge who is eligible at the time that the Judge is selected,
          regardless of whether that Player was eligible at the time that
          the CFJ was actually called for or when the identity of that
          Player is announced."
         12/7    Called by Wes
         12/8-9  Assigned to Blob, who Judges TRUE and grants Motion to
                   annotate Rule 1868
         Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 1868 does not explicitly
           say when eligibility is measured, so it should be measured
           at time of selection - no sooner or later.

CFJ 1187 "A Judge is considered to be assigned to Judge a particular CFJ
[TRUE]    at the time that the Clerk of the Courts announces the identity
          of the Judge, and no sooner."
         12/7  Called by Wes
         12/8  Assigned to Elysion, who Judges TRUE and grants Motion
                 to annotate Rules 408 and 1868
         12/8  Appealed by Steve and Blob
         Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 408 places timing requirements
           on a Judge based on the time a CFJ is assigned, but Rule 1868
           does not explicitly say when assignation occurs, so it should
           occur upon the CotC's announcement.
         Journalist's notes:  Elysion, despite Judging TRUE, claims that
           a Judge is assigned when the CotC selects em.  The Statement of
           this CFJ actually implies that selection and assignation are
           separate events, occuring in that order.  A possible alternate
           view is that the CotC's selection of a Judge does not occur when
           e makes up eir mind who e shall select, but only when e announces
           it.

CFJ 1188 "Kolja A. should not have been assigned to the Board of Appeals
          for CFJ 1183."
         12/12  Called by Murphy
         12/12  Assigned to harvel
         Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 911, clause iv.
         Journalist's notes:  Wes claims that Kolja's disqualification
           from the Board would result in less than three eligible Board
           members.  However, Kolja's ineligibility was by request,
           whereas most Players' ineligibility was from Rule 1871 (Turns
           for All) which explicitly does not disqualify its targets from
           Boards of Appeal.


OFFICES
-------

12/8   Voting begins for these Offices:
         Justiciar - Blob, Kolja A., lee
         Notary    - Peekee, t
         Promotor  - t, Wes


OTHER
-----

12/7   Steve comes Off Hold.

12/8   Chuck protoes the Curmudgeon's -VT Supply Contest:

       A Player billed -VTs for Voting AGAINST a Proposal may, within
         two weeks, buy up to that many -VTs from this Contest, in
         exchange for other Currencies.
       Other -VT trades are subject to Contestmaster approval.  The
         Contestmaster may not buy -VTs emself.
       The Contestmaster may change Exchange Rates at any time.  The
         Exchange Rate for a Proposal is the smallest one in effect
         since the start of the Voting Period.

12/11  Indulgence Auction ends.  lee gets three Indulgences and Blob
         gets fourteen, at a price of 90 IATs per Indulgence.

12/12  Kolja A. protoes the New Agoran Carnival Bank:

       The Director publishes the shareholders report.
       The Clerk processes and reports transactions.
       Deposits and withdrawals may always be made.
       The Clerk may grant or deny loans, but must get the Director's
         approval to loan more than half the NACB's holdings of a
         Currency, or to loan to a Player with overdue NACB debt.
       Currency exchanges may always be made, except to receive more
         than half the NACB's holdings of a Currency, which exchanges
         may never be made.
       Shares may be bought and traded at any time.  Shareholders are
         Contestants and vice versa.
       The Director always owns a special labelled share which is
         treated normally, except that it cannot be traded.
       Any shareholder may move to amend the Regulations.  Motions are
         adopted by 2/3 approval.  Each shareholder has votes equal to
         eir shares when the motion was distributed.
       Each shareholder's suggestion for NACB parameters carries weight
         equal to eir shares on the 20th of the month, when the Clerk
         recalculates the parameters.  Silent shareholders are deemed to
         suggest the current value.
       Savings interest rates, loan interest rates, exchange rates, and
         exchange commission rates are NACB parameters.

12/13  Peekee claims to Distribute eir own Proposal "Secret, Unknown
         and Hidden Proposals 1.1".

       lee submits a Will.

12/14  t's Grace Period ends.


TRADE OFFERS
------------

Ongoing offers:

Player    Date  Will sell    In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Carnival  9/16  +0.01 VT     1 Denaria
Carnival  9/16  10 Denaria   On a Player's birthday, sing "Happy
                               Birthday" to em in a key with at least
                               four sharps
Elysion   ?     FOR Vote     VT cost + 5 Denaria; individual refusal
OotEE     9/13  1 Iris       1 VT; non-members subject to 9% Tariff

9/18  The Agoran Carnival accepts deposits of VTs, P-Notes, or IATs, at
        weekly interest of 3 Denaria per unit.

      The Agoran Carnival will loan its VTs, P-Notes, or IATs, at weekly
        interest of 5 Denaria per unit.

      The Agoran Carnival will pay N of any Basic Currency in exchange
        for (N of any other Basic Currency plus N Denaria).

One-time offers:

Player    Date  Will sell    In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Blob      11/1  10 +VTs      1 Indulgence
Carnival  11/12 Denaria      2 blocks of 50 -VTs
Carnival  11/12 2 blocks of  Denaria
                  50 P-Notes
Chuck     9/1   IATs         Up to 50 +VTs, negotiable
harvel    11/13 Negotiable   Delegation of Assessor from 11/23 to 12/1
lee       11/1  5 +VTs       1.1 Indulgences (directed to Palnatoke,
                               but e declined on 11/6)
