From ford@jps.net Mon Jul 17 22:38:19 2000
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 2000 09:53:58 -0700
From: Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>
Reply-To: agora-discussion@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
To: agora-business@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
Subject: BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal

      THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
      VOLUME 46, ISSUE 23
      July 17, 2000


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"72 Hours" by t - Proposal 4026 adopted 7/12
   Auctions end after 72 (not 24) hours with no new winning Bids.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  Auctions should simply last a week.]

"Bring Back the Worm!" by Elysion - Proposal 4027
   "Honorless Worm" is re-enacted, now as a Unique Patent Title
     attaching to the Player (if any) with the least Kudos.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  "What a polite, civil idea.  And
  shouldn't it be 'Honourless Worm', anyway?"]

"Excess Baggage II" by Elysion - Proposal 4031
    A reference to Blots in Rule 1445 (Defaults for Elections) is
      removed, since Players may now Nominate for Office regardless
      of Blots.

"Fix Patronage" by Chuck
   Speaker's Patronage is implemented by the Speaker paying it out,
     rather than posting a Notice of Transfer directly.  Only the
     Executor or a Limited Executor of the Bank can effectively post
     the Notice of Transfer.

"My Votes Are My Own" by Chuck
   If an Election candidate Stands Down, anyone who Voted for em may
     then Vote for someone else.

"No Bouncing VEs" by Kelly
   An entity's Voting Power on a Proposal is eir lowest Voting Power
     from the time it was (distributed or made Democratic, whichever
     is later) to the time e attempts to Vote.

"Power!" by t - Proposal 4029
   All limits on Voting are implemented via Voting Power.  Oligarchs
     have a more severely limited Voting Power on Democratic Proposals.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  One of the repeals is ambiguous and
   thus would be without effect.  New Rule creation should specify their
   Power, not AI.]

"Powerfix" by t - Proposal 4032
   Voting Power is fixed at the beginning of each week.
   Voting Power on Ordinary Proposals may only be changed by a
     Democratic Proposal.
   An Oligarch's Voting Power on Democratic Proposals has a lower
     maximum than usual (but e may possess any number of VEs).
   An Oligarch's Votes on Ordinary Proposals may be less than the
     current maximum, and may be cast in any combination.
   A non-Player's Voting Power on Democratic Proposals is generally
     zero.  Groups with at least three members have a Voting Power
     of (one plus eir number of VEs), maximum three.

"Remove Leftover Baggage" by Elysion - Proposal 4030
   Expected VTs are no longer part of the Accountor's Report.

"Remove Proposal Number Reference from R1770"
   Repeal a dangling reference to (now deregulated) Proposal Numbers.

"The Medici" by harvel - Proposal 4028
   The Medici is a new Officer who tracks the identity of Officers and
     Oligarchs.  E controls Elections, announces Speaker Transitions, and
     detects Dereliction of Duty.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  What would happen if a Payroll Clerk
   Election were in progress when this was adopted - would it remain in
   the Speaker's hands, or immediately switch to the Medici?  Why can't
   the Medici be declared to be held in perpetuity?]

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"72 Hours for Holidays" by Oerjan
   A Player has 72 (not 24) hours after a Holiday to do things that e
     would otherwise have been required to do during the Holiday.

"Being Immaculate Is Its Own Reward" by Chuck
   The 1-Indulgence bonus for being Immaculate all quarter is repealed.

"Expiring Currencies" by Michael
   Units of Currency may have an expiration date.
   A unit of Currency's expiration date may be extended a month by
     paying an Indulgence, or another unit of that Currency with the
     same expiration date.
   Various P-Notes are given expiration dates, or otherwise tweaked.
   Inclusion of Immortal units of an expiring Currency in Speaker's
     Patronage is limited to one unit per month.

"General Budgets" by Oerjan
   Budgets are converted into a general concept, of which the Treasuror's
     Budget remains one instance.

"More Fully Baked Oligarchy" by Kelly
   All Oligarch Auctions are for Low Oligarch positions.
   When there are six Oligarchs, but not enough High or Middle:
     * The Middles (or, if none, the Lows) select a Low to become
         High.  The previous High (if now a Low) may not be selected.
     * The High selects a Low to become Middle.

"No Dereliction without warning" by Oerjan
   Dereliction of Duty (failure of an Officer to Report for three
     weeks in a row) occurs only if the Officer was reported for
     Failure to Report for the first two of those weeks.

"One Less Rule" by Elysion
   Move the definition of "Shogun" to Rule 1923 (Defined Unique
     Patent Titles).

"Papyri" by t
   Papyri are a Bank Currency, tracked by the Promotor, and paid to
     get Proposals distributed.
   A Proposal's Distribution Cost is 1, or 1.5 if Urgent.
   While Disinterested, a Proposal is always Distributable.
   Interested Proposals start as Undistributable.  Any Player may pay
     a Proposal's Distribution Cost in Slotten to make it Distributable,
     or twice its Distribution Cost in Slotten to make it Undistributable.
   The Current Batch contains all Distributable Proposals.
   The Promotor chooses how many Papyri to Auction each month, but must
     Auction at least one.  If there are at least three Winners other than
     emself, then e may pay out to emself Stems equal to the Winning Bid.
   New Players get one Papyrus, plus one Papyrus per Interested Proposal
     adopted during eir Grace Period.
   Each Player gets one Papyrus when this Proposal is adopted.

"Reduce the Ruleset!" by Elysion
   Repeal Rule 1715 (Announcing One's Presence).  Since Voting
     ABSTAIN on a Proposal is now free, Presence is only useful
     for Elections and Referenda.

"Repeal 'Nomic Property'" by Murphy
   Repeal the definition of "Nomic Property", which is currently used
     in only two other Rules, and which no longer carries any special
     protection (all protection coming from Rule 101's self-limitation).

"Repeal Nomic Property" by Oerjan
   Pretty much the same as the above.

"Satiric Ballads" by Elysion
   The 1-Indulgence bonus for being Immaculate all quarter is repealed,
     and in fact the entire Rule is replaced by an almost - but not quite
     entirely - dissimilar four paragraphs of verse.

"Say Something"
   At the end of a Proposal's Voting Period, each Player who could have
     Voted on it - but hasn't Voted or declared Presence on any Proposal
     in the past month - commits the Infraction of Failure to Vote.

"Simplify Organizations" by Oerjan
   Groups and Contests become Political and non-Political Organizations.
   An Organization's Executor and SLC Maintainer may be specified by the
     SLC as different from the Administrator.

"Upmutations" by Oerjan
   Increase the Power of Rules 693 (Prescribed Voting Period) and 376
     (When Proposals Take Effect) to 2, to prevent an Ordinary Proposal
     from unreasonably delaying the ability to adopt Democratic Proposals.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1233  "Rule 1927 should be interpreted as requiring the Executor of the
[FALSE]    Bank to announce eir intent to mint Bank Currencies between seven
            and fourteen days prior to actually minting them.
           7/2     Called by Steve
           7/2     Steve submits a Motion requesting an Order to Annotate
           7/5-11  Assigned to Elysion, who Judges FALSE and denies the Motion
           Caller's argument (summary):  "The Executor of a Bank Currency"
             is strictly undefined, but is a "semanto" (semantic typo) for
             one of "The Executor of the Mintor of a Bank Currency" or "The
             Mintor of a Bank Currency" or "The Executor of the Bank".
           Judge's refutation (summary) and related discussion:  A Bank
             Currency is a set of entities, but that set is itself another
             entity.  Thus, a Bank Currency could have an Executor, even
             though none currently does.  Thus, "Executor of a Bank Currency"
             is defined, even though no Bank Currency currently has an
             Executor.  The Rules used to define "Executor of a Bank Currency"
             as shorthand for "Executor of the Mintor of a Bank Currency", but
             that definition has since been repealed.


OFFICES/OLIGARCHS
-----------------

7/12  Steve consents to delegation of Accountor.

       Accountor Crito delegates to Steve from July 16 to July 24
         (midnight GMT on both days).

7/14  Kelly Nominates for Payroll Clerk.

7/15  Oerjan Nominates for Payroll Clerk.

       Voting would begin for Payroll Clerk, but Speaker Chuck does
         not announce Oerjan's Nomination (e received it late), so
         the Election doesn't begin at this point after all.

       lee is Elected Treasuror.

       lee and Murphy each receive five Votes in the Speaker-Elect
         Election.  Speaker Chuck (who did not Vote) must choose.

       Murphy is Elected Scorekeepor.

7/16  Oerjan Stands Down in the Election for Payroll Clerk.  Eir
         first attempt to do so illustrates the inability of Nominees
         to remove emselves from an Election between the Nominating
         and Voting Periods.


OTHER
-----

7/15  Oerjan registers.

7/16  t transfers all eir Kudos to Novalis.  (Since "holds" and "posssesses"
         are synonymous, Kudos are Property.)


TRADE OFFERS
------------

Ongoing offers:

Player    Date  Will sell         In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Blob      6/19  Vote on Ordinary  Highest bidder; minimum 10 of any
                   Proposals         Basic Currency, or equivalent
Carnival  9/16  0.01 VT           1 Denaria
Carnival  9/16  10 Denaria        On a Player's birthday, sing "Happy
                                     Birthday" to em in a key with at
                                     least four sharps
OotEE     9/13  1 Iris            1 VT; non-members subject to 9% Tariff
Wes       4/5   1 Twig            Commenting on and changing a proto
Wes       4/5   ad space          1 Twig per 30 days

Recent one-time offers:

Player    Date  Will sell         In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Crito     7/6   Negotiable        IATs
Kelly     7/1   1 VE              Negotiable
Murphy    5/6   VTs, P-Notes      IATs; one-to-one basis
Taral     7/1   P-Notes           VTs
Wes       7/7   IATs              VTs (directed to Crito)


--
Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>     http://rivendell.fortunecity.com/meridian/309/
           "Most of the time, it seemed sublimely unaware of its limbs,
            though it was beginning to suspect it had hands."
