From ford@jps.net Mon Jul 24 15:35:04 2000
Date: Mon, 24 Jul 2000 00:59:27 -0700
From: Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>
Reply-To: agora-discussion@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
To: agora-business@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
Subject: BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal

      THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
      VOLUME 47, ISSUE 1
      July 24, 2000


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Bring Back the Worm!" by Elysion - Proposal 4027 adopted 7/17
   "Honorless Worm" is re-enacted, now as a Unique Patent Title
     attaching to the Player (if any) with the least Kudos.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  "What a polite, civil idea.  And
  shouldn't it be 'Honourless Worm', anyway?"]

"Remove Leftover Baggage" by Elysion - Proposal 4030 adopted 7/18
   Expected VTs are no longer part of the Accountor's Report.

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

"Power!" by t - Proposal 4029 rejected 7/18
   All limits on Voting are implemented via Voting Power.  Oligarchs
     have a more severely limited Voting Power on Democratic Proposals.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  One of the repeals is ambiguous and
   thus would be without effect.  New Rule creation should specify their
   Power, not AI.]

"The Medici" by harvel - Proposal 4028 rejected 7/17
   The Medici is a new Officer who tracks the identity of Officers and
     Oligarchs.  E controls Elections, announces Speaker Transitions, and
     detects Dereliction of Duty.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  What would happen if a Payroll Clerk
   Election were in progress when this was adopted - would it remain in
   the Speaker's hands, or immediately switch to the Medici?  Why can't
   the Medici be declared to be held in perpetuity?]

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"72 Hours for Holidays" by Oerjan
   A Player has 72 (not 24) hours after a Holiday to do things that e
     would otherwise have been required to do during the Holiday.

"Clarify Rule 1596 (Debt)" by Oerjan
   A making-payments-on-debt clause in Rule 1596 is moved from the end
     to the beginning of its paragraph, clarifying that it applies to the
     entire paragraph.

"Dereliction Fix" by Oerjan
   Dereliction of Duty, rather than occurring when an Officer fails to
     report three weeks in a row, occurs when e is cited for Failure to
     Report and then continues to fail to report through the week of the
     citation.

"Fix Rule 1747 (Pardoning Lawlessness)" by Oerjan
   Correct two errors in Rule 1747:  the assumption that Lawless persons
     are still Players, and a prohibition on recipients of Indulgence
     transfers (which includes the Bank) rather than purposes.

"Fix Rule 1853 (Levying Taxes)" by Oerjan
   Amend Rule 1853 to explicitly allow tax exemptions.

"General Budgets" by Oerjan
   Budgets are converted into a general concept, of which the Treasuror's
     Budget remains one instance.

"One Less Rule" by Elysion
   Move the definition of "Shogun" to Rule 1923 (Defined Unique
     Patent Titles).

"Upmutations" by Oerjan
   Increase to Power=2 the Rules defining the Voting Period and the time
     that Proposals take effect, so that an Ordinary Proposal cannot
     arbitrarily delay the ability to adopt Democratic Proposals.

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"Clean Up Elections" by Murphy
   Referendum procedure is amended as follows:
     * Identity of Vote Collector is fixed when Voting Period starts.
     * Eligibility to Vote is fixed when Voting Period starts.
     * One-week cutoff for challenges (previously applying only to the
         Voting Period of Elections) is added.
   Election procedure is amended as follows:
     * Identity of Nomination Collector is fixed when Nominating Period starts.
     * Eligibility to Nominate is fixed when Nominating Period starts.
     * Ties are broken automatically if the Speaker Voted for one of the
         tied candidates.

"Fix Defined Patient Titles" by Peekee
   Repeal two Rules that define most of the specific Patent Titles.

"Forced-Ordinary/Democratic Proposals" by Peekee
   A Forced-Ordinary Proposal must have AI=1, cannot be Forced-Democratic,
     has Priority Cost +2, and is locked into being Ordinary.
   A Forced-Democratic Proposal has Priority Cost +1, and is locked into
     being Democratic.

"New Succession" by Peekee
   The Order of Succession for Speaker-Elect is as follows:
     * Players who received more total Stems in the last paying-out of
         periodic compensations appear first in the list.
     * Ties are broken in favor of more recently registered Players.

"Papyri" by t
   Papyri are a Bank Currency, tracked by the Promotor, and paid to
     get Proposals distributed.
   A Proposal's Distribution Cost is 1; +1 if Urgent, +1 if Sane (each
     Player may Vote at most once; no non-Player may Vote).
   While Disinterested, a Proposal is always Distributable.
   Interested Proposals start as Undistributable.  Any Player may pay
     a Proposal's Distribution Cost in Slotten to make it Distributable,
     or twice its Distribution Cost in Slotten to make it Undistributable.
   The Current Batch contains all Distributable Proposals.
   The Promotor chooses how many Papyri to Auction each month, but must
     Auction at least one.  If there are at least three Winners other than
     emself, then e may pay out to emself Stems equal to the Winning Bid.
   New Players get one Papyrus, plus one Papyrus per Interested Proposal
     adopted during eir Grace Period.
   Each non-Zombie Player gets one Papyrus when this Proposal is adopted.

"Points Adjustments" by Wes
   Points are clarified as not being Property.
   No Points for a Patent Title if one has already held that Title within
     the past seven days.  No Points for a Degree if one has already held
     that Degree in the past.
   Five-Point penalty (at most once a month) for simultaneously having at
     least one Blot and at least one Indulgence for at least seven days
     continuously.

"Respect for the dead" by Peekee
   Wills are re-defined, and the Notary may carry them out as e sees fit
     when handling Abandoned Property.

"Secret, Unknown and Hidden Proposals" by Peekee
   Secret Proposals have Priority Cost +1, and their Priority is secret
     till Distribution.  (Billing for Priority changes is delayed till
     the Proposal leaves the Queue.)
   Unknown Proposals have Priority Cost +1, and their text may be kept
     secret till Distribution.
   Hidden Proposals have Priority Cost +1, and their existence in the
     Proposal Queue is secret till Distribution.  (However, they must
     still be Proposed publicly, unless also Secret; and have their
     Priority increased publicly, unless also Unknown.)

"Simple Shogun" by Peekee
   Pretty much the same as Elysion's recent Proposal "One Less Rule".

"The CotC's Budget" by Oerjan
   The CotC's Budget determines the Class of all Crimes (0 to 15) and
     Infractions (0 to 5, though Dereliction of Duty is allowed to have
     a Crime-level penalty).
   At most once every 30 days, with 2 Supporters, the CotC may amend the
     Budget.  Crimes and Infractions that existed in the old Budget may
     have their Class changed by at most 1.

"Timing of Messages and Orders" by Murphy
   Messages take effect when received (by first non-author recipient, if
     multiple recipients; media of distribution are treated as equal to
     individual recipients).
   Requirements to send/etc. are satisfied by sending (even if receipt
     fails) if author reasonably expected delivery within three days.

"Wage Earners" by Wes
   Salary pay-outs and the Treasuror's Budget cover all Offices, not just
     "wage-earning" ones.  (A new Office might be created without having
     a Salary, and thus might never be able to gain one, depending on how
     the current Rules are interpreted.)


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1234  "Kudos are Property."
           7/19  Called by Murphy
           7/20  Assigned to Kelly

CFJ 1235  "Peekee has not been awarded the Patent Title of Quack."
           7/20  Called by Oerjan
           7/20  Assigned to lee

CFJ 1236  "Zombies are not rewarded Indulgences for being Immaculate all
            Quarter."
           7/21  Called by Peekee
           Caller's argument (summary):  Zombies cannot read, and are thus
             not covered by the "y'all" in Rule 1924.
           Counterargument:  Zombies are people, and thus can (probably) read.


OFFICES/OLIGARCHS
-----------------

At some point on or after 7/15 (I lost the message), Chuck properly
initiated the Voting Period of the Payroll Clerk Election.  Nominees
are lee and Kelly.


OTHER
-----

7/17  Auction begins for one Voting Entitlement.

7/20  t wins the VE Auction with a bid of 180 VTs.


TRADE OFFERS
------------

Ongoing offers:

Player    Date     Will sell           In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Blob      6/19/00  Vote on Ordinary    Highest bidder; minimum 10 of any
                      Proposals           Basic Currency, or equivalent
Elysion   7/23/00  Herald's Privilege  Negotiable
Carnival  9/16/99  0.01 VT             1 Denaria
Carnival  9/16/99  10 Denaria          On a Player's birthday, sing "Happy
                                          Birthday" to em in a key with at
                                          least four sharps
OotEE     9/13/99  1 Iris              1 VT; non-members subject to 9% Tariff
Wes       4/5/00   1 Twig              Commenting on and changing a proto
Wes       4/5/00   ad space            1 Twig per 30 days

Recent one-time offers:

Player    Date  Will sell         In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Crito     7/6   Negotiable        IATs
Kelly     7/1   1 VE              Negotiable
Murphy    5/6   VTs, P-Notes      IATs; one-to-one basis
Taral     7/1   P-Notes           VTs
Wes       7/7   IATs              VTs (directed to Crito)


ERRATA
------

Proposal "72 Hours" by t should have been listed under Adopted Proposals.

Murphy was Elected Speaker-Elect on 7/15; Chuck's Vote had been omitted.


--
Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>     http://rivendell.fortunecity.com/meridian/309/
           "Most of the time, it seemed sublimely unaware of its limbs,
            though it was beginning to suspect it had hands."
