Subject:
BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal
From:
Ed Murphy <emurphy42@socal.rr.com>
Date:
Sat, 25 Jun 2005 17:52:24 -0700
To:
Agora Business <agora-business@agoranomic.org>

     THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
     VOLUME 49, BACK ISSUE 21
     Thursday, March 31, 2005


THIS IS A WORLD YOU'LL NEVER UNDERSTAND
---------------------------------------

Andre    - Old CFJs           http://www.win.tue.nl/~engels/stare.txt
Elysion  - Thesis archive     http://www.msu.edu/~boehmejo/agora.html
Goethe   - Claustronomic      http://faculty.washington.edu/kerim/nomic/
Michael  - First Speaker      http://web.rsise.anu.edu.au/~michaeln/agora/
             RCS SLR            ~michaeln/yoyo/RCS/short-ruleset,v
             RCS FLR            ~michaeln/yoyo/RCS/full-ruleset,v
Murphy   - CotC Web           http://zenith.homelinux.net/cotc/
Riail    - AgoraMOO           telnet://mail.feoh.org:4781
root     - Proposal Pool      http://www.periware.org/agora/


ERRATA
------


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Fix CFJ Linkage" by root - Proposal 4659 adopted 3/29
  Automatic recusal from multiple linked CFJs preserves their linkage.

"Fix Winning" by root - Proposal 4644 adopted 3/12
  Pending draws gained from Rule 2080 (Cards for Proposals) are deemed not
    to have been gained until now.  A redundant no-fee clause is removed from
    the rule.
  If the Deckmastor incorrectly processes post-win conditions, then gamblers
    are still un-frozen, but the Deckmastor commits the Crime of Stacking the
    Deck if the error was not in good faith.

"Grafty is not a bribe, for the fourth time" by Quazie - Proposal 4640
    adopted 3/6
  The Card element Grafty does not trigger Rule 1561 (Illegality of Bonus
    Clauses).

"How my garden grows" by Quazie - Proposal 4643 adopted 3/12
  All active non-quiet players receive a Daffodil five days after this
    proposal is adopted, unless the Herald has repealed Rule 2050 (The
    Garden) first.

"Kudos for Cards" by Quazie - Proposal 4647 adopted 3/22
  New card Greedy Bastard (Budgeted[3]; gain a kudo and an albatross).
  New card Charity Brings Happiness (Budgeted[6]; transfer a kudo to a poorer
    player and gain a boon).
  New card Thieves in the Night (Grafty, Delayed[5]; if less than half of
    non-Deck gamblers have this card, and the target does not have it, steal
    a kudo from em; for each prerequisite that is false, gain an albatross).

"Late Announcement of Elections for Offices" by Murphy - Proposal 4650 adopted
    3/22
  The result of an office election is still effective if announced late,
    unless another election for that office has already started.

"Look, Ma, No Hand-Waving (It's Invisibilitated)" by root - Proposal 4660
    adopted 3/29
  All requirements to discard that arose from Rules 2075 (Winning Hands) or
    2083 (Win Resolution) before March 19, 2005, are nullified.
  The Deckmastor may discard from eir own frozen hand as required by the rules.

"Magical Mute Exemption Tour" by Quazie - Proposal 4649 adopted 3/22
  A mute Legislator may, with 2 support, submit a proposal with Mute Exemption,
    provided that all requirements other than non-muteness are met.  If
    adopted, the author loses a number of Blots equal to its Adoption Index,
    but gains no boons.

"Saving Throw vs. Failed Saving Throw" by root - Proposal 4641 adopted 3/6
  Proposal 4623 (Vote Cards) is retroactively exempted from Rule 1561
    (Illegality of Bonus Clauses).

"Slow play CFJ assignments" by Kolja - Proposal 4648 adopted 3/22
  The Clerk of the Courts may, without 2 objections, flip players to turned
    if e expects em to Judge slowly or not at all.

"Slow Play Reporting" by Kolja - Proposal 4655 adopted 3/29
  Weekly reports need not be published if they would be substantially the same
    as the previous one.

"Some Things Are More Trouble Than They're Worth" by root - Proposal 4658
    adopted 3/29
  Repeal the three-week limit on re-submitting a proposal unchanged; do not
    require an explicit announcement of intent to re-submit.

"The Rimmer Experience" by Murphy - Proposal 4642 adopted 3/12
  New Patent Titles (Three/Six/Nine/Twelve) Months Long Service, for holding
    an office continuously for that long.  Each player only gets one of each.

"The University of Agora" by Sherlock - Proposal 4657 adopted 3/29
  The Speaker is President and executor of the University, but may only act on
    its behalf as explicitly permitted by the rules.
  Education (Student, Faculty) is a stuck player switch.  The Herald shall
    flip it to Faculty upon the award of a Degree.
  The Speaker may announce a Research Grant, specifying a task and a number
    between one and five.  If a player completes the task within a month, e
    may (without 2 objections) award em that many Boons of Achievement (only
    one award per task).
  During the first week of each month, players may specify a rule as that
    month's Book Club Selection; only the first specification is effective,
    and that player becomes moderator.  If a proposal amends or repeals that
    rule within the next 30 days, then the moderator and the author of the
    first such proposal each gain a boon.
  The University (Gardner Library) is a gambler, and gets free deals to bring
    its hand size up to five.  A player may check out a card from the Library
    for a fee of 2 (Students) or 1 (Faculty); the Speaker shall transfer it
    to em.

"Tiny spelling error fix" by Quazie - Proposal 4656 adopted 3/29
  Amend Rule 1841 (Granting Power of Attorney) by replacing "seven says" with
    "seven days".

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

"Bye Bye Blob" by Quazie - Proposal 4654 rejected 3/29
  Remove Blob's vanity clause from Rule 1686 (Official Reports).

"Forgiving the new" by Quazie - Proposal 4645 rejected 3/22
  Time limits for unready players are extended by 50% (before Holiday
    extensions are calculated).

"More Awesomer than not" by Quazie - Proposal 4662 rejected 3/29
  New Patent Titles Nano-Awesome, Micro-Awesome, Semi-Awesome, Quasi-Awesome,
    Awesome, Uber-Awesome, to accompany a player's first, second, third,
    fourth, fifth, and sixth Boons of Gold Star.  Each player only gets the
    highest one to which e is entitled.

"More Cards" by Quazie - Proposal 4661 rejected 3/29
  New card Dud Development (Quota 2; discard X Duds to get X free draws).
  New card Fish your Wish (Quota 5, Handed[2], Limited [Quazie while his hand
    is frozen][1]; specify a gambler not already targeted by this card, and a
    card [your Wish]; if eir next draw is the Wish, you get it and a free draw;
    if not, you may pay a kudo to draw a card, and get a free draw if it is the
    Wish).

"Sticky Situation" by Quazie - Proposal 4652 rejected 3/22
  New card trait Sticky (cannot be discarded unless a player's hand is frozen).
  Hot Potato gains this trait.

"Testing the rules" by Quazie - Proposal 4653 rejected 3/22
  [Written in International Morse Code - all typos are the author's:]
    Create a new rule called "Spivak Pronouns "who's text is identicle to the
    text of Rule 29 in Nomic Sidekick Nomic ,except the words "Nomic Sidekick
    Nomic" shall be replaced with "Agora "(the word Agora shall appear in
    English letters not Morse Code )in the text of this new rule

"Those boons must get out somehow now with infractions" by Quazie - Proposal
    4651 rejected 3/22
  Failing to award the Boon of Prodigy or Zeitgeist within a day after voting
    results are published is a Class 0.25 Infraction.

"Tic Tac Toe" by Quazie - Proposal 4646 rejected 3/22
  For every three boons (other than 3 in a row) or albatrosses gained in a
    week, a player gains the boon of 3 in a row.  If this occurs three times
    in a month, the player earns the Patent Title of Tic Tac Toe champ; e
    then receives the boon of O and the albatross of X immediately after each
    Turning of a New Parchment, and may transfer both to another player within
    two weeks of the Turning.

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"absolve-o-mo-matic" by Goethe
  Immaculate players may play Absolv-o-Matic to expunge any number of blots
    from an entity, for a fee of 1 kudo per blot beyond the first.

"Bye Bye Garden" by Quazie
  Repeal Rule 2050 (The Garden) upon the first Turning of a New Parchment
    after April 1, 2005.

"Bye Bye Michael Norrish" by Quazie
  Repeal Rule 104 (First Speaker).

"Card-Carrying Contests" by Goethe
  Each player may be Contestmaster of up to one Card-Carrying Contest at a
    time.  It is a gambler, and e is its limited executor.  It may (as
    explicitly permitted by its regulations) draw up to N/3 cards per month
    (N = number of members at beginning of month), transfer, and discard,
    but not play.
  Existing contests may be converted with 2 support and without 2 objections.

"Card Counting" by Goethe
  The Discard Pile is a gambler.  Cards played or discarded go to it, unless
    transferred as part of the Deckmastor's duties.
  Whenever total pending draws exceed the size of the Deck, the Deckmastor
    shall Reshuffle (transfer all cards in the Discard Pile to the Deck)
    before dealing.
  Discard Picking takes cards from the Discard Pile.
  New card Reshuffle (Quota 3, Asleep[15]; Deckmastor must Reshuffle now).

"Changeable shares" by Quazie - Proposal 4668
  New card Divide or Conquer Your Stock (Quota 8, Restricted [Shareholders];
    specify a set of your Shares and a set of the deck's Shares with the same
    total, and discard the first to get the second).

"Civil Service pay raise" by Goethe
  Paperwork (Low, High) is a stuck office/Speaker/Distributor switch, tracked
    by the Assistant Director of Personnel.  E and the Speaker may flip an
    office with 2 support and without 2 objections.
  Once a month, each holder of a High Paperwork office gets an extra boon, and
    may invoke eir Civil Service Exemption to make one proposal distributable
    for free.
  The Herald, Deckmastor, Clerk of the Courts, Promotor, and Assessor are
    initially High Paperwork.

"Clarify Ineffectiveness, Mark III" by Murphy
  Rule 1561 (Illegality of Bonus Clauses) is retroactively given immunity from
    the "must guide play" clause of Rule 107 (Rule Changes Must Be Written
    Down).
  Coercive, bribing, and vetoed proposals are blocked and thus not adopted.

"Co-authorship" by Sherlock - Proposal 4664
  The Rulekeepor shall record explicitly named proposal co-authors.

"Deckmastor perks" by Kolja - Proposal 4665
  The Deckmastor's Voting Power on Ordinary Proposals is increased by the
    number of Shares in the deck, for a maximum increase of three, and e
    may vote and count toward quorum even if e is not a Shareholder.

"Fix Patronage" by root - Proposal 4663
  Patronage gains Powered[2], but is free of the usual Powered[X] fee because
    it specifies its own fee.

"Goethe's Idea in Proposal Form" by Quazie
  The Herald, Deckmastor, Clerk of the Courts, Promotor, and Assessor get
    an extra boon each month.

"History Lengthened" by Goethe - Proposal 4671
  The subject of a Doctor of Nomic History thesis need not have occurred
    within the past 8 weeks.

"More cards 3 part 1" by Quazie - Proposal 4666
  New card Dud Development (Quota 2; discard X Duds to get X free draws).

"More cards 3 part 2" by Quazie - Proposal 4667
  New card Fish your Wish (Quota 5, Handed[2]; pay 1 kudo, specify a gambler
    not already targeted by this card, and a card [your Wish]; if eir next
    draw is the Wish, you get it and a free draw; if not, you may pay a kudo
    to draw a card, and get a free draw if it is the Wish).

"Office Condensation" by Goethe
  Award a boon to the Notary, then repeal it and give its duties to the
    Justiciar, then retire the Justiciar (forcing an election).

"One Revolution per Quarter" by Goethe
  On May 1, any non-officer may remove an officer by announcement; the
    non-officer becomes holder but not electee.
  For CFJs called on March 21, the caller is eligible to judge, and the Clerk
    of the Courts must assign em as Trial Judge.

"Proposals for All" by Sherlock
  Each player may have at most three proposals in the pool at once.
  The Promotor may distribute proposals at any time.  During each week, e is
    required to distribute the proposals that were in the pool at the beginning
    of the week, or (if the pool was empty) announce such.
  Repeal Depth, Distribution Cost, and Distrib-u-Matic (grant free draws in
    place of the latter).

"Queue Cards" by Manu
  New card First In Last Out (Budgeted; reverse the order of the Proposal
    Queue).
  New card Twenty Bucks To The Doorman (Budgeted; move a proposal to the top
    of the Queue).
  New card Sucks To Be You! (Budgeted; move the proposal at the top of the
    Queue to the bottom).
  New card QueueMania! (Quota 1; shuffle the Proposal Queue).
  New card Information Wants To Be Free (Budgeted; double the size of the
    next distribution).
  New card Statu Quo (Budgeted; halve the size of the next distribution).

"Reduce the Linked CFJ Penalty" by OscarMeyr - Proposal 4670
  A Judge recused from multiple linked CFJs is penalized the standard 3 Blots
    for the first, but only 1 for each additional.

"Shareholders are not liable" by Manu - Proposal 4672
  Penalties for Infractions are reduced by one's Share holdings, but not
    below 1.

"Simple free distribution" by Goethe
  Players may flip others' proposals to distributable by paying the
    distribution cost minus one, minimum zero.

"Taking over Takeovers" by Goethe
  New Card element Asleep (same as Delayed, except you are limited by anyone
    playing the card recently, not just yourself).
  Mainsail (Tyrannical, Piratical) is a stuck proposal switch.  Proposals that
    become Piratical become democratic and sane.
  If a proposal is Piratical at the end of its voting period, and specifies a
    set of Raiders at least a Minimal Crew (one-third the number of active
    noisy players) but no more than twice a Minimal Crew, then the Raiders
    gain Sente and everyone else gains Gote (if it is adopted), or vice versa
    (if it is rejected).
  New card Hoist the Flag (Quota 5, Asleep[30]; make a proposal Piratical).
  New card Royal Navy (Quota 2; make a proposal Tyrannical).
  New card Cannon Fire (Quota 3; abort a Piratical proposal and send it back
    to the pool).
  New card Dread Pirate Roberts (Quota 3; make a Piratical proposal Tyrannical
    and make a different Tyrannical proposal Piratical).
  New card Not Your Turn (Budgeted[3], Delayed[2]; retroactively undo a card
    play within the past 48 hours, and prevent the gambler from re-playing it
    for 72 hours).

"Takeover Takeover" by root
  Takeover Proposal.  Corporate Raiders are Eris, Goethe, Kolja, Manu,
    OscarMeyr, Quazie, and Riail.
  Repeal Rule 2078 (Takeover Proposals).
  All players have Voting Power on Democratic Proposals equal to their Voting
    Potential.

"The Enemies of Agora" by Sherlock
  A player may create a Threat by announcing its name, nature (Disaster/
    Villain), potency (fee to create), and target (for Disasters, a Rule; for
    Villains, a player).  E is its Prime Executor.
  The Notary shall announce the Threat's creation, initiating its seven-day
    Incubation Period.
  A Threat may be Thwarted by paying (potency+1) kudos, or (potency/2 rounded
    up) kudos with the support of one-third of active players; the player who
    does so receives (potency/2 rounded up) kudos.
  If a Threat is not Thwarted by the end of its Incubation Period, it is
    Hatched.
  When a Disaster is Hatched, the creator has seven days to submit a proposal
    to repeal the target (and nothing else), and is considered to cast
    (potency) extra votes FOR; the Disaster then ceases to exist.
  When a Villain is Hatched, the target loses (potency+1) kudos; the Villain
    then ceases to exist.

"The Proposal Queue" by Sherlock - Proposal 4673
  Repeal Distrib-u-Matic (grant free draws in its place).
  The Proposal Pool becomes the Proposal Queue.
  Proposals enter the Queue in the order they are submitted, each one starting
    at the bottom unless otherwise specified.
  Each player may have at most four interested proposals in the Queue at once.
  Each proposal's Priority is the number of proposals above it in the Queue.
  A player may move a proposal up or down one place by paying its Queuing Fee
    (replacing Distribution Cost).
  Each week's Minimum and Maximum Distribution are the minimum and maximum of
    the number of proposers with proposals in the Queue and half the number of
    proposals in the Queue (rounded up).  These are measured at the beginning
    of the week.
  The Promotor shall distribute the top (Minimum Distribution) proposals, any
    disinterested proposals, and any proposals that entered the Queue more than
    a month ago.  E may additionally distribute any portion of the remainder of
    the top (Maximum Distribution) proposals.  If the Queue is empty, e shall
    announce it.
  Urgent proposals shall be distributed within five days after they move to the
    top half or exact middle of the Queue.
  Aborted proposals go to the top of the Queue.
  Procedure moves a proposal to the bottom of the Queue.
  Proposals submitted on Guy Fawkes Day go to the top of the Queue.

"The Secretary as an office" by Quazie - Proposal 4669
  The Secretary of the University is an office.  Eir report includes Research
    Grants, Book Club selections, Educations, and cards checked out.
  Quazie is installed as Secretary.

"Tiny addition to Illegality" by Quazie
  Bribes nullify only the text of a proposal, not any rule-based side effects
    triggered by its adoption.

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"A Few Small Steps" by Maud
  Coin flips are no longer explicitly accepted for making random choices with
    reasonably-close-to-uniform probability.
  Grace Period holiday extensions are simplified to "sixty days, not including
    Holidays".
  A Hive of at least two players may jointly register as a single player.

"Dear Assessor, Please Boon Me" by Quazie
  Failing to award the Boon of Prodigy or Zeitgeist before the next Turning
    of a New Parchment, unless it was earned within one week of the end of a
    Turning, is a Class 0.25 Infraction (halved if the Assessor apologizes for
    all of them within a week of the beginning of the Turning).

"Hanging Chad" by Murphy
  Multiple simultaneous votes are deemed to be cast one at a time, e.g. 2F+A
    = FOR, FOR, AGAINST.

"Judgement Referenda" by Sherlock
  A player may call a CFJ to be decided by referendum.  The vote collector is
    the Justiciar, the caller cannot vote, and vote values are TRUE/FALSE/
    DISMISSED.

"keeping the volume down" by Quazie
  At the end of a week in which proposals were distributed, players who do not
    vote on any proposal may be made quiet by the Assessor.

"passing has yet to be defined for proposals" by Quazie
  Adopted proposals are considered to have passed.

"Put your money where your mouth is" by Murphy
  A player may pay a kudo to overturn-and-remand dismissal due to item (iii)
    (matter is irrelevant to the rules) of Rule 1565 (Dismissal of a CFJ),
    as if a Board of Appeals had remanded it.

"Release the fnords" by Quazie
  Fnords cease to exist unless they become visible within a week after this
    proposal takes effect.

"Repeal Rule 1561" by Goethe
  Allow proposals to offer bribes.

"The Agoran Book Club" by Sherlock (mute, thus ineffective)
  During the first week of each month, players may specify a rule as that
    month's Agoran Book Club Selection; only the first specification is
    effective, and that player becomes moderator.  If a proposal amends or
    repeals that rule within the next 30 days, then the moderator and the
    author of the first such proposal each gain a boon.

"The Computer Is Your Friend" by Manu
  All active players are traitors and gain 20 blots.
  Players with more than 20 blots must report to the nearest Termination
    Center.

"The Customer is Always Right" by Maud
  Once a month, each player may pay a kudo to request review of a specified
    appellate decision.
  As soon as possible after the Turning of a New Parchment, if the list of
    requests is non-empty, the Justiciar shall publish a Docket containing
    zero or more of them.  This empties the list.
  Each month, if the list of unreviewed Docket items is non-empty, the Clerk
    of the Courts shall convene a Board of Appeals for the first one.  It may
    not be reviewed again, but its review may be reviewed.

"The Map of Agora" by Maud (condensed form below)
   ,-_|\
  /     \
  \_,-._* <- Port Macquarie
       v

"What are spivak pronouns" by Quazie
  A Spivak pronoun is a gender neutral way to refer to an entity.  The
    uses of said Spivak Pronouns are located below.
  subject: he/she becomes ey (or, alternatively, e).
  object: him/her becomes em.
  possessive adjective: his/her becomes eir.
  possessive pronoun: his/hers becomes eirs.
  reflexive: himself/herself becomes eirself (or, alternatively, emself).
  The use of Spivak Pronouns is encouraged when writing rules and
    addressing others.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

Requests for ineligibility:

2/22  Maud (all) - revoked 3/4

CFJ 1531  "Proposal 4639 was Aborted."
[FALSE]   2/27    Called by root
          3/6-12  Assigned to Maud, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 2078 (Takeover Proposals) says
            that Takeover Proposals are both Democratic and Sane.  When
            Proposal 4639 ceased to be a Takeover Proposal (see CFJ 1528),
            it may have ceased to be Democratic as well, in which case it
            was aborted by Rule 1933 (A Proposal's Chamber) for having its
            chamber changed.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Rule 2078 set its initial chamber,
            but no instrument with sufficient power changed its chamber.

CFJ 1532  "Proposals containing rule changes that were submitted after Rule
[FALSE]    1561 was created have taken effect."
          3/4     Called by Quazie
          3/6-11  Assigned to Sherlock, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  All rule changes would improve the
            game for at least one player (the author) and thus count as
            bribes to vote FOR, which would lead to a judgement of FALSE.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Some of the proposals in question
            failed to take effect for reasons unrelated to Rule 1561.

CFJ 1533  "Rule 1561 cannot prevent an adopted Rule Change from taking effect."
[FALSE]   3/6      Called by Goethe
          3/13-20  Assigned to Sir Toby, who is recused
          3/20-27  Assigned to Murphy, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 107 (Rule Changes Must Be Written
            Down) takes precedence over it, and says that adopted proposals
            guide play.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Guiding play is not the same as
            determining play; "guiding play" is satisfied by triggering the
            evaluation of the rules determining the effects of adopted
            proposals, with the specified proposal text as input.

CFJ 1534  "Michael Norrish is the Speaker."
[FALSE]   3/7   Called by Quazie
          3/13-20  Assigned to Eris, who is recused
          3/20-24  Assigned to Kolja, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 104 (First Speaker) says that
            Michael is Speaker for the first game.  There is no indication
            that the first game has ended.  None of the other rules defining
            the Speakership or its transfer take precedence over Rule 104.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Ends of games were previously defined,
            and occurred, according to the rules then in effect.

CFJ 1535  "Sherlock did not gain 15 Blots on June 15th, 2004."
[FALSE]   3/10     Called by Sherlock
          3/12-17  Assigned to root, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  Sherlock's failure to judge five
            linked CFJs was one inaction, not five; so Rule 1816 (No Double
            Jeopardy for Crimes) allows only one 3-blot penalty, not five.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Every aspect of linked CFJs and
            related actions/inactions/messages strongly indicates full
            separability.

CFJ 1536  "Murphy is not a Contestant in Pakaran's Contest."
[FALSE]   3/12     Called by Murphy
          3/12-17  Assigned to Michael, who judges FALSE
          Caller's argument (summary):  "AOL!", "me too!", and "I perform the
            above-quoted action" are all synonymous.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  No, they aren't, that's just an Ugly
            American perversion of culture.  Get off my lawn, you darn kids!


OFFICES
-------

3/1   Sherlock is elected Notary.

3/16  Deckmastor Goethe delegates to root until the end of March 18.

3/17  root accepts delegation.

3/20  Promotor root delegates to Sherlock for 9 days starting March 26.

3/23  Sherlock accepts delegation.


SHAREHOLDERS
------------

3/14  root receives One Share.

      Riail receives Two Shares.

      Maud receives One Share.

3/18  gazebo_dude receives Three Shares.

      Eris receives Two Shares.

      Manu receives Two Shares.

3/20  root transfers One Share to Quazie.


CARDS
-----

3/14  root plays three Absolv-o-Matics (for Sherlock).

      Riail plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

      Quazie plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

3/16  Maud plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

3/18  Quazie plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

      Quazie plays Your Turn (for Goethe).

      gazebo_dude plays two Absolv-o-Matics (for Sherlock).

      root plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

3/19  Goethe plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

      Riail plays Your Turn (for Eris).

      Sherlock plays Distrib-u-Matic (for The University of Agora).

3/28  Riail plays It's a Surprise!.

      Quazie plays Absolv-o-Matic (for Sherlock).

      Quazie plays Enforced Charity (for Manu) and (ineffectively) specifies
        One Share.


IN OTHER NEWS
-------------

3/8   Manu creates a new contest ChessNut, allowing one game of standard chess
        at a time.

3/11  gazebo_dude registers.

3/13  Quazie publishes a Notice of Abandonment for Pakaran.  Registrar
        OscarMeyr confirms it and publishes a Notice of Intent to Deregister.

      Quazie makes Sir Toby quiet.

3/14  Quazie publishes two Notices of Abandonment for Sir Toby, attempting to
        make em silent before the second one.  Registrar OscarMeyr points out
        that the attempt fails, and that neither notice is valid.

3/15  Kelly grants the Registrar discretion to list em as a Watcher.

      Manu adds number-of-games-won scorekeeping to ChessNut.

3/30  President Sherlock offers a three-Boon Research Grant for proposing a
        three-chamber proposal system.

