Subject:
BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal
From:
Ed Murphy <emurphy42@socal.rr.com>
Date:
Sun, 31 Jul 2005 20:56:57 -0700
To:
Agora Business <agora-business@agoranomic.org>

     THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
     VOLUME 49, BACK ISSUE 22
     Friday, April 15, 2005


ONE PROPOSAL FROM MANU, NINETEEN PROPOSALS FROM QUAZIE
------------------------------------------------------

Andre    - Old CFJs           http://www.win.tue.nl/~engels/stare.txt
Elysion  - Thesis archive     http://www.msu.edu/~boehmejo/agora.html
Goethe   - Claustronomic      http://faculty.washington.edu/kerim/nomic/
Michael  - First Speaker      http://web.rsise.anu.edu.au/~michaeln/agora/
             RCS SLR            ~michaeln/yoyo/RCS/short-ruleset,v
             RCS FLR            ~michaeln/yoyo/RCS/full-ruleset,v
Murphy   - CotC Web           http://zenith.homelinux.net/cotc/
Riail    - AgoraMOO           telnet://mail.feoh.org:4781
root     - Proposal Pool      http://www.periware.org/agora/


ERRATA
------

Actually, it's more than 19, but I was worried that no one would get the joke
  if I made it too obscure.


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Changeable shares" by Quazie - Proposal 4668 adopted 4/9
  New card Divide or Conquer Your Stock (Quota 8, Restricted [Shareholders];
    specify a set of your Shares and a set of the deck's Shares with the same
    total, and discard the first to get the second).

"Co-authorship" by Sherlock - Proposal 4664 adopted 4/9
  The Rulekeepor shall record explicitly named proposal co-authors.

"Deckmastor perks" by Kolja - Proposal 4665 adopted 4/9
  The Deckmastor's Voting Power on Ordinary Proposals is increased by the
    number of Shares in the deck, for a maximum increase of three, and e
    may vote and count toward quorum even if e is not a Shareholder.

"Fix Card Fees" by OscarMeyr and Maud - Proposal 4674 adopted 4/13
  The standard fee for drawing cards is not increased due to cards drawn by
    methods other than paying the standard fee.
  Replace "one per office, counting the Speakership as an office" with "one
    per office, plus one for the Speakership".

"Fix Patronage" by root - Proposal 4663 adopted 4/9, but failed to specify
    Rule 2077's new Power - Proposal 4675 adopted 4/13
  Patronage gains Powered[2], but is free of the usual Powered[X] fee because
    it specifies its own fee.

"History Lengthened" by Goethe - Proposal 4671 adopted 4/9
  The subject of a Doctor of Nomic History thesis need not have occurred
    within the past 8 weeks.

"More cards 3 part 1" by Quazie - Proposal 4666 adopted 4/9
  New card Dud Development (Quota 2; discard X Duds to get X free draws).

"More cards 3 part 2" by Quazie - Proposal 4667 adopted 4/9
  New card Fish your Wish (Quota 5, Handed[2]; pay 1 kudo, specify a gambler
    not already targeted by this card, and a card [your Wish]; if eir next
    draw is the Wish, you get it and a free draw; if not, you may pay a kudo
    to draw a card, and get a free draw if it is the Wish).

"Reduce the Linked CFJ Penalty" by OscarMeyr - Proposal 4670 adopted 4/9
  A Judge recused from multiple linked CFJs is penalized the standard 3 Blots
    for the first, but only 1 for each additional.

"Shareholders are not liable" by Manu - Proposal 4672 adopted 4/9
  Penalties for Infractions are reduced by one's Share holdings, but not
    below 1.

"The Secretary as an office" by Quazie - Proposal 4669 adopted 4/9
  The Secretary of the University is an office.  Eir report includes Research
    Grants, Book Club selections, Educations, and cards checked out.
  Quazie is installed as Secretary.

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

"The Proposal Queue" by Sherlock - Proposal 4673 rejected 4/9
  Repeal Distrib-u-Matic (grant free draws in its place).
  The Proposal Pool becomes the Proposal Queue.
  Proposals enter the Queue in the order they are submitted, each one starting
    at the bottom unless otherwise specified.
  Each player may have at most four interested proposals in the Queue at once.
  Each proposal's Priority is the number of proposals above it in the Queue.
  A player may move a proposal up or down one place by paying its Queuing Fee
    (replacing Distribution Cost).
  Each week's Minimum and Maximum Distribution are the minimum and maximum of
    the number of proposers with proposals in the Queue and half the number of
    proposals in the Queue (rounded up).  These are measured at the beginning
    of the week.
  The Promotor shall distribute the top (Minimum Distribution) proposals, any
    disinterested proposals, and any proposals that entered the Queue more than
    a month ago.  E may additionally distribute any portion of the remainder of
    the top (Maximum Distribution) proposals.  If the Queue is empty, e shall
    announce it.
  Urgent proposals shall be distributed within five days after they move to the
    top half or exact middle of the Queue.
  Aborted proposals go to the top of the Queue.
  Procedure moves a proposal to the bottom of the Queue.
  Proposals submitted on Guy Fawkes Day go to the top of the Queue.

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"...or get off the pot" by Sherlock
  Each player's Voting Power on Democratic Proposals is increased by the
    number of offices e held for 16+ days in the previous month, plus the
    number of eir Interested Proposals which were adopted during that month.

"42" by root
  No switch may be flipped to a state it is already in.

"absolve-o-mo-matic" by Goethe - Proposal 4682
  Immaculate players may play Absolv-o-Matic to expunge any number of blots
    from an entity, for a fee of 1 kudo per blot beyond the first.

"A Few Small Steps" by Maud - Proposal 4693
  Coin flips are no longer explicitly accepted for making random choices with
    reasonably-close-to-uniform probability.
  Grace Period holiday extensions are simplified to "sixty days, not including
    Holidays".
  A Hive of at least two players may jointly register as a single player.

"A More Sanitary Pool" by root
  The effects of Sanitization are separated from its triggers (Untainted
    Speaker with 2 support; Policy card).  Only an instrument with Power >= 2
    may trigger it.

"April Fool's Takeover" by root - Proposal 4677
  Takeover Proposal.  Corporate Raiders are Eris, Goethe, Kolja, Manu,
    OscarMeyr, Quazie, and Riail.
  Append this text to Rule 1787 (April Fool's Day):
      And should it one day be observed
         by any wag who breaks a Rule,
      the Speaker will one Boon award
         to em who was the biggest Fool.

"Arch Nemesis" by Quazie - Proposal 4679
  Arch Nemesis is a stuck player switch with values null, (all active
    non-silent players).
  A player may flip eir Arch Nemesis switch to another player if e has voted
    against at least two of eir proposals within the last 30 days.  If e
    votes for one of eir Arch Nemesis's proposals, then any player may flip
    eir Arch Nemesis to null.
  If Alice's Arch Nemesis is Bob, then Alice is Bob's Harasser.
  A player's Voting Power on eir Arch Nemesis's non-sane proposals is doubled.
  A player's Voting Power on eir own non-sane proposals is multiplied by
    (1 + number of eir Harassers).

"A Streamlined Ruleset, Part One" by Sherlock
  Repeal Organizations, Contests, Monasteries, SLCs, and the Notary.

"At least once a month" by Quazie - Proposal 4695
  Weekly reports must be published at least monthly, even if their content
    does not significantly change.

"browsing shelf" by Goethe
  Cards that have been in the Library for less than 24 hours may not be
    checked out.

"Bye Bye Michael Norrish" by Quazie - Proposal 4680
  Repeal Rule 104 (First Speaker).

"Cabinet? But why?" by Quazie - Proposal 4713
  Repeal Rule 1905 (The Cabinet).

"Card-Carrying Contests" by Goethe - Proposal 4700
  Each player may be Contestmaster of up to one Card-Carrying Contest at a
    time.  It is a gambler, and e is its limited executor.  It may (as
    explicitly permitted by its regulations) draw up to N/3 cards per month
    (N = number of members at beginning of month), transfer, and discard,
    but not play.
  Existing contests may be converted with 2 support and without 2 objections.

"Card Counting" by Goethe - Proposal 4694
  The Discard Pile is a gambler.  Cards played or discarded go to it, unless
    transferred as part of the Deckmastor's duties.
  Whenever total pending draws exceed the size of the Deck, the Deckmastor
    shall Reshuffle (transfer all cards in the Discard Pile to the Deck)
    before dealing.
  Discard Picking takes cards from the Discard Pile.
  New card Reshuffle (Quota 3, Asleep[15]; Deckmastor must Reshuffle now).

"Card Experiments" by Sherlock
  A player may create a new Card type by publishing a Card Blueprint.  It is
    in its Trial Run.  It has Quota 1, and a copy is created in the Library's
    possession, but it cannot be checked out for seven days.  It is returned
    to the Library after it is played.  Any player may destroy it by
    announcement.

"Change of Heart" by Sherlock - Proposal 4699
  Votes can be changed or cancelled.

"Clarity in transference" by Quazie
  Amend Rules 2069 (Card Actions), 1664 (Rebellion), and Corporate Bankruptcy
    (possibly ineffective - specifies text but not rule/rules) to say that
    cards are "transferred" to the Deck, rather than "returned".

"Cleaning up the Draw rules" by Quazie
  Define draws, fee-based draws, and Full Hands / Individual Maximum
    Hand Size separately, then re-use the latter definition for draws due to
    one's proposals being adopted.

"Critical Mass, Again" by Sherlock
  If there are more than thirty undistributable proposals in the pool, any
    player may (with support of 2 players who have not proposed any proposals
    in the pool) make them all distributable.

"Death to the Plebeians" by Quazie
  Repeal the definition of Plebeian (possibly ineffective - specifies text but
    not rule/rules).

"Easier Card Fees" by Manu
  Card fees shall be paid as soon as possible.  For each kudo not paid on
    time, the Gambler commits the Class 1 Infraction of Debt Overdue.

"Fix the Choas" by Quazie - Proposal 4703
  Spelling fix in Rule 2079 (Deckmaster -> Deckmastor).

"Fix the Thief" by Quazie
  The less-than-half provision of Thieves in the Night ignores the Library
    and Discard Pile.

"Flexibility" by Sherlock
  Votes can be changed.
  Players can have Power of Attorney over more than two other players.
  Players can expunge anyone's Blots for a fee.

"Fool me thrice" by Goethe - Proposal 4707
  Amend Rule 1726 (The Guillotine) to require the ratio of signing to
    non-signing Active Senators to *not* exceed the proposal's Adoption Index.
  This is buried in the middle of trivial whitespace amendments to several
    other rules.

"Honorary Degrees" by root - Proposal 4688
  An adopted Proposal with Power >= 2 may award an honorary degree to a
    non-player, who need not complete a thesis.  Such degrees are recorded as
    honorary, and are replaced if the person later earns the same degree by
    other means.

"Inside Agent" by Manu - Proposal 4709
  New card Police State (Budgeted, Restricted [Abiding]; for a fee equal to
    the number of Rebels, decrease the effective number of Rebels by one for
    seven days).

"Instant Library" by Quazie - Proposal 4706
  Cards checked out from the Library are automatically transferred to the
    Borrower.

"Is it legal for root to keep changing all my proposal names?" by Quazie
  New Patent Title Hyperactive (more than ten proposals adopted in one week),
    awarded to Quazie for the April 11 distribution.

"lets try that again" by Quazie
  New card Fish your Wish (Quota 5, Handed[2]; pay 1 kudo, specify a gambler
    not already targeted by this card, and a card [your Wish]; if eir next
    draw is the Wish, you get it and a free draw; if not, you may pay a kudo
    to draw a card, and get a free draw if it is the Wish).

"Library cards" by Quazie - Proposal 4712
  New card Library Renewal (Budgeted 2; announce a number from 1 to 5, force
    Library to discard that many non-reserved cards).
  New card Library Card (Budgeted 2, Limited [Faculty] [1]; check out a card
    from the Library with no fee).

"Looting the dead" by Quazie
  New card Loot the Dead (Quota 1; discard a silent player's entire hand).

"Magical Mute Refinement" by Quazie - Proposal 4704
  The adoption of a Mute Exemption Proposal expunges a maximum of five Blots.

"Make It So" by Sherlock
  New card Live Long and Prosper (Quota 1; expunge all player Blots if less
    than half the players are Immaculate).
  New card Highly Illogical (Budgeted; a Student becomes a Faculty Member for
    72 hours).
  New card Hailing... No Response (Quota 1; make a player Noisy).

"More Chaos part 1" by Quazie
  New card Chaos Reborn (Quota 1, Handed 2, Kallisti!; playing this card gives
    you five minutes to play Chaos Apple, even if Chaos Apple has been played
    this quarter).

"More Chaos part 2" by Quazie
  Chaos Apple:  Shuffle the deck and transfer a random half (rounded down) to
    the discard pile.

"More corporate cards" by root - Proposal 4684
  New card Share Split (Quota 1; double quota of all Budgeted Stock Cards).
  New card Merger (Quota 1; halve quota of all Budgeted Stock Cards).

"More Kudo Cards" by Quazie - Proposal 4711
  New card Instant Gratification (Limited [players with at least one boon],
    Budgeted 5; convert one of your boons to a kudo).
  New card Instant Punishment (Limited [players with at least one albatross],
    Budgeted; get rid of one of your Albatrosses and lose a kudo).
  New card Instant Millionaire (Quota 1; convert all of your boons to 2 kudos
    each).

"More Library Cards" by Eris
  New card Library Recall (Budgeted; a card checked out in the last week must
    be returned by the player who checked it out within 72 hours, or you may
    give em an Albatross).

"Non transitory rebellion" by Quazie - Proposal 4686
  A successful Rebellion does not triggers a Speaker Transition if the
    Speaker is Rebellious.

"Office Condensation" by Goethe - Proposal 4698
  Award a boon to the Notary, then repeal it and give its duties to the
    Justiciar, then retire the Justiciar (forcing an election).

"One Revolution per Quarter" by Goethe - Proposal 4701
  On May 1, any non-officer may remove an officer by announcement; the
    non-officer becomes holder but not electee.
  For CFJs called on March 21, the caller is eligible to judge, and the Clerk
    of the Courts must assign em as Trial Judge.

"Plant Killer" by Quazie - Proposal 4683
  Repeal Rule 2050 (The Garden).

"POWER TO THE PLEBS!" by Quazie
  New Proposal Chamber, Plebeian, similar to Ordinary except that each Pleb
    (non-Shareholder) has a Voting Power of one, everyone else has zero.  The
    Deckmastor may not vote on Plebeian Proposals.
  The Speaker-Elect may veto Plebeian Proposals with support of 1/3 of Plebs
    (rounded down).

"Promotors Emphemra" [sic] by Quazie
  New boon UberProposor; the Promotor may award it to the player who e feels
    submitted the best proposal each month.
  New ephemeral Patent Title PromotorsBane (Dynamic, initially Albatross); the
    Promotor may award it to the player who removed the most proposals from
    the pool each month.

"Promotor's Ex-Lax" by Quazie - Proposal 4710
  The Promotor may, without 4 objections, pay 3 kudos to make all proposals in
    the pool distributable.

"Protect the Native Fora" by root - Proposal 4690
  Rule 478 (Fora) is increased from Power=1 to Power=3, and prohibits
    changing a forum's Publicity by any but the standard means.

"Quack Quack" by OscarMeyr - Proposal 4708
  Repeal the Patent Title Quack.

"Queue Cards" by Manu and Sherlock
  New card First In Last Out (Budgeted; reverse the order of the Proposal
    Queue).
  New card Twenty Bucks To The Doorman (Budgeted; move a proposal to the top
    of the Queue).
  New card Sucks To Be You! (Budgeted; move the proposal at the top of the
    Queue to the bottom).
  New card QueueMania! (Quota 1; shuffle the Proposal Queue).
  New card Information Wants To Be Free (Budgeted; double the size of the
    next distribution).
  New card Statu Quo (Budgeted; halve the size of the next distribution).

"Raffles, Again" by root - Proposal 4692
  New card Raffle Ticket (Grafty; each quarter, a random Raffle Ticket holder
    gains three Boons, and all Player-held Raffle Tickets are discarded).

"Rogue's Gallery" by Sherlock - Proposal 4705
  The less-than-half provision of Thieves in the Night ignores all non-player
    gamblers.  Previously, it ignored the Deck but included the University.

"Root is still mean but now it works with the discard pile" by Quazie
  Re-create Divide or Conquer Your Stock, which was overwritten by Proposal
    4684.  The replacement cards come from the discard pile first, then the
    deck if needed.

"Sherlock smells, but at least he fixed my errors" by Quazie - Proposal 4696
  Merge Rules 1678 (Encourage Proposals by New Players), 2061 (Boon of
    Zeitgeist), and the Boon clause of 2060 (Guy Fawkes Day) into one rule.
  Ephemeral Patent Titles earned between one week before the end of the
    last quarter and one week before the end of the current quarter must be
    awarded before the end of the quarter.  Denying the Boon of Tapecutter
    is subject to the same timing requirement.

"Simple free distribution" by Goethe - Proposal 4702
  Players may flip others' proposals to distributable by paying the
    distribution cost minus one, minimum zero.

"Slight addenda to two rules" by Quazie - Proposal 4685
  When a state ceases to be a state of a switch, all entities in the class
    that were in that state are flipped to the default state.
  Rule 1950 (Voting Power) explicitly permits other rules with Power >= 2 to
    modify a player's Voting Power.

"Switch Reform" by root - Proposal 4691
  Switches may be set or changed by any instrument, unless prohibited.
  Instances of "flip" or "switch" are changed to "set".  "Flipping" is used
    only to refer to changing a switch by player announcement.
  Ephemeral Patent Titles explicitly defined as Boons or Albatrosses are
    Static.  Those not so defined are Dynamic, and are set to their original
    state during each Turning of a New Parchment.

"Takeover fix?" by Eris
  Submitting a Takeover Proposal makes all other Takeover Proposals
    undistributable and removes them from the pool.

"Takeover Takeover" by root - Proposal 4676
  Takeover Proposal.  Corporate Raiders are Eris, Goethe, Kolja, Manu,
    OscarMeyr, Quazie, and Riail.
  Repeal Rule 2078 (Takeover Proposals).
  All players have Voting Power on Democratic Proposals equal to their Voting
    Potential.

"Taking over Takeovers" by Goethe - Proposal 4678
  New Card element Asleep (same as Delayed, except you are limited by anyone
    playing the card recently, not just yourself).
  Mainsail (Tyrannical, Piratical) is a stuck proposal switch.  Proposals that
    become Piratical become democratic and sane.
  If a proposal is Piratical at the end of its voting period, and specifies a
    set of Raiders at least a Minimal Crew (one-third the number of active
    noisy players) but no more than twice a Minimal Crew, then the Raiders
    gain Sente and everyone else gains Gote (if it is adopted), or vice versa
    (if it is rejected).
  New card Hoist the Flag (Quota 5, Asleep[30]; make a proposal Piratical).
  New card Royal Navy (Quota 2; make a proposal Tyrannical).
  New card Cannon Fire (Quota 3; abort a Piratical proposal and send it back
    to the pool).
  New card Dread Pirate Roberts (Quota 3; make a Piratical proposal Tyrannical
    and make a different Tyrannical proposal Piratical).
  New card Not Your Turn (Budgeted[3], Delayed[2]; retroactively undo a card
    play within the past 48 hours, and prevent the gambler from re-playing it
    for 72 hours).

"The following classes of cards are defined" by Quazie - Proposal 4714
  Prepend this phrase to Rules 2076 (Card cards), 2084 (Cash Cards), and
    "Library Cards" (if it exists), which lack it.

"The Map of Agora" by Maud (condensed form below)
   ,-_|\
  /     \
  \_,-._* <- Port Macquarie
       v

"The President's Marks" by Sherlock - Proposal 4689
  The President of the University shall publish a Grade of each proposal,
    with explanation, after its voting period.  A/B/C/D/F are worth
    +2/+1/0/-1/-2 Credits, respectively, to the author.  After each Turning
    of a New Parchment, all Credits are reset to zero, and the President shall
    award the Boon of Teacher's Pet to the player who had the highest Credit
    before the reset.  If a player receives this boon thrice in a year, e
    receives the Patent Title Head of the Class.

"Tiny addition to Illegality" by Quazie - Proposal 4681
  Bribes nullify only the text of a proposal, not any rule-based side effects
    triggered by its adoption.

"True Pay Raise" by Goethe - Proposal 4697
  Paperwork (Low, High) is a stuck office/Speaker/Distributor switch, tracked
    by the Assistant Director of Personnel.  E and the Speaker may flip an
    office with 2 support and without 2 objections.
  Once a month, each holder of a High Paperwork office gets an extra boon, and
    may invoke eir Civil Service Exemption to make one proposal distributable
    for free.
  The Herald, Deckmastor, Clerk of the Courts, Promotor, and Assessor are
    initially High Paperwork.

"Two for the price of one" by Quazie - Proposal 4687
  New card Two for One (Budgeted 8; make two undistributable proposals with a
    Distribution Cost of 1 distributable for a fee of 1 kudo).

"University Maintenance" by root
  The Speaker is a Limited Executor of the University, rather than an Executor
    with a one-off limitation, and is specifically empowered to transfer cards
    from the University as explicitly permitted by the rules.

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"Anti-Critical Mass!" by Sherlock
  If there are more than thirty proposals from less than ten proposers in the
    pool, any player may announce it and force the Promotor to remove at least
    half the undistributable proposals from the pool before the next
    distribution.

"Buttons Are A Choking Hazard" by Murphy
  Amend Rule 2050 by replacing "the Herald may repeal this rule without
    objection" with a direct self-repeal clause, which the Herald may
    trigger without objection.

"card fixing" by Quazie
  Fee-based card actions occur even if the fee is not paid, but if the fee is
    not or cannot be paid ASAP, then the player gains an Albatross for each
    unpaid kudo.

"Chinify the Sensei" by Manu
  Rename "Sensei" to "Lama" in Rule 2048 (Enlightenment).

"Cleaning up the cards" by Quazie
  Repeal the following rules and move their Cards/Elements to the Deckmastor's
    Card Book:
    2070 (Card Powerz)
    2059 (Legality of Bonus Clauses)
    2067 (Cards in Play)
    2071 (Wacky Cards)
    2076 (Card cards)
    2077 (Democratic cards)
    2079 (Discord)
    2084 (Cash Cards)

"First Honorary Degree" by root
  Swann receives an honorary D.N.Phil for eir fiction work.

"Fnordify the Sensei" by Manu
  Rename "Sensei" to "Episkopos", and "Yin" and "Yang" to "Hodge" and "Podge",
    in Rule 2048 (Enlightenment).  Require the Episkopos to have at least one
    kudo.

"Limited Faculties" by Murphy
  The Speaker is Limited Executor of the University, rather than Executor with
    a one-off limitation.
  The Deckmastor is Limited Executor of the Deck, rather than Executor with a
    one-off limitation.

"make Lawlessness more affirmative" by OscarMeyr
  Notice of Lawlessness begins Lynching.  Herald shall confirm accuracy,
    remove Lawless player from all offices (a Speaker Transition occurs if e
    is the Speaker), and publish a Notice of Intent to Deregister.  If the
    Notice of Lawlessness remains valid for a week, then the Herald shall
    deregister the Lawless player.

"Omnibus Spelling Fix" by Maud
  "nonwithstanding" -> "notwithstanding":
    2059 (Legality of Bonus Clauses)
    2060 (Guy Fawkes Day)
    2078 (Takeover Proposals)
    2052 (Voting Potential)
  "Proposor" -> "Proposer":
    1678 (Encourage Proposals by New Players)
    2061 (Boon of Zeitgeist)
  "commonsense" -> "common sense":
     217 (Judgements Must Accord with the Rules)
  "Appelate" -> "Appellate":
     911 (The Board of Appeals)
    1570 (Announcement of Appeal)
    1447 (Final Judgement upon Appeal)
    2026 (Appelate Determinations; also in title)
    1693 (Appeal of a Judgement)
  "maintainance" -> "maintenance":
    1670 (The Distributor)
  "transfering" -> "transferring":
    2069 (Card Definitions)
  "Deckmastor" -> "Deckmastor" (?):
    2079 (Discord)
  "Bearor" -> "Bearer":
     649 (Patent Titles)
  "existant" -> "existent":
    1370 (How to Get a Degree)
  "Foundor" -> "Founder":
    1533 (Application to Create an Organization)
    1446 (Contests)

"Portfolio Strength" by root
  Portfolio Strength is added to Voting Power on Ordinary Proposals, and
    reset regularly.
  New card I'm Just Speculating (increase Portfolio Strength by 1).

"Proposal Modifiction" [sic] by Quazie
  Players may modify eir undistributable proposals, but this cancels intent
    to make disinterested.

"Replace Blots With Albatrosses, The Ham-Fisted Way" by Murphy
  Retcon "Blot" as a synonym of "Weed".

"Some new card ideas" by Quazie
  New card element FakeShares [X] (player is deemed to have X Fake Shares for
    one week after playing it; Fake Shares increase Share Holdings).
  New card One Fake Share (Budgeted, FakeShares 1).
  New card Two Fake Shares (Budgeted, FakeShares 2, Handed 2).
  New card Three Fake Shares (Budgeted, FakeShares 3, Handed 3).
  New card One Point Conversion (discard FakeShares 1/2/3 to get One Share
    from the discard pile if possible, else from the deck; kudos adjusted by
    -1/0/+1).
  New card Two Point Conversion (discard FakeShares 1/2/3 to get Two Shares
    from the discard pile if possible, else from the deck; kudos adjusted by
    -2/-1/0).
  New card Three Point Conversion (discard FakeShares 1/2/3 to get Three
    Shares from the discard pile if possible, else from the deck; kudos
    adjusted by -3/-2/-1).

"Switch Cards" by root
  New card Peaceful Demonstration (Budgeted, Restricted [Rebels]; pay 2 kudos
    to make a player Rebellious).
  New card Government Propaganda (Budgeted, Restricted [Abiding]; pay 1 kudo
    to make a player Abiding).
  New card Reverse Polarity (Budgeted; flip Karma of an ephemeral Patent
    Title).
  New card Cutting in Line (Budgeted; flip a player's Orientation).
  New card I Have the Power! (Quota 1, Restricted [Immaculate], Asleep 90;
    pay half your kudos, minimum 5, to flip any switch).

"The New User FAQ" by Quazie
  The Registrar maintains the FAQ, publishes it at least once every two
    months, and sends it to new players.  Any player may amend the FAQ
    without objection.
  The initial FAQ explains Spivak pronouns.

"Trading Window" by Goethe
  The Deckmastor may not perform card actions as emself within 4 hours after
    performing official duties requiring random determination of cards.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1533  "Rule 1561 cannot prevent an adopted Rule Change from taking effect."
[TRUE]    3/6      Called by Goethe
Appealed  3/13-20  Assigned to Sir Toby, who is recused
          3/20-27  Assigned to Murphy, who judges FALSE
          3/27-31  Appealed by Goethe, Sherlock, root, and Maud
          4/3-6    Appeal assigned to root, Eris, and OscarMeyr, who move
                     to REMAND
          4/15     Murphy judges TRUE (unintentionally)
          4/15     Appealed by Murphy, Quazie, root, and Goethe
          4/15     Appeal assigned to root, Eris, and Manu
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 107 (Rule Changes Must Be Written
            Down) takes precedence over it, and says that adopted proposals
            guide play.
          Judge's refutation (summary):  Guiding play is not the same as
            determining play; "guiding play" is satisfied by triggering the
            evaluation of the rules determining the effects of adopted
            proposals, with the specified proposal text as input.
          Judge's second refutation (summary):  Adopted proposals guide play
            by activating Rules 107 and 594 (Power and Proposals), but are
            blocked from further effect by Rule 1561.

CFJ 1537  "Goethe has a Two Shares card."
[TRUE]    4/7  Called by root
          4/9-11  Assigned to Quazie, who judges TRUE
          Caller's argument (summary):  Two Shares was recently "returned" to
            the Deck, but not explicitly discarded (i.e. transferred to the
            Deck).  If it was not discarded, then Goethe failed to acquire it
            by playing Discard Picking.
          Judge's argument (summary):  The card moved from one Gambler to
            another, so it was a transfer.

CFJ 1538  "A successful play of the Corporate Bankruptcy card causes any
           shares cards not in the Deck to be discarded."
          4/7  Called by Goethe
          4/9  Assigned to Riail
          Caller's argument (summary):  Corporate Bankruptcy causes them to be
            "returned" to the Deck, but not explicitly discarded (i.e.
            transferred to the Deck).

CFJ 1539  "On or about Sun, 10 Apr 2005 23:46:45 -0400, root submitted a
           Call for Judgement."
          4/15  Called by Murphy; part of Linked CFJs 1539-41
          4/15  Assigned to Goethe
          Commentary:  root announced that e sued Quazie for attempting to
            declare Presence on Ordinary Proposals, and claimed that it was
            equivalent to a CFJ with the statement "[Quazie] attempted to
            declare Presence on several Ordinary proposals" and a Motion to
            Order em not to do it again.

CFJ 1540  "On or about Sun, 10 Apr 2005 23:46:45 -0400, root submitted a
           Call for Judgement with the statement 'e attempted to declare
           Presence on several Ordinary proposals'."
          4/15  Called by Murphy; part of Linked CFJs 1539-41
          4/15  Assigned to Goethe

CFJ 1541  "On or about Sun, 10 Apr 2005 23:46:45 -0400, root submitted a
           Call for Judgement with the statement 'Quazie attempted to
           declare Presence on several Ordinary proposals'."
          4/15  Called by Murphy; part of Linked CFJs 1539-41
          4/15  Assigned to Goethe

CFJ 1542  "The rules currently define no card with the caption 'Your Turn'."
          4/12  Called by Kolja
          4/15  Assigned to Sherlock
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 2076 (Card cards) does not
            explicitly say that the text defines a card.

CFJ 1546  "In reports and distributions, the Promotor is permitted to add
           or delete whitespace or other formatting text to or from a
           proposal, provided that the substance of the proposal is not
           altered."
          4/14  Called by root
          4/15  Assigned to Kolja
          Caller's argument (summary):  May follow from the same line of
            reasoning as a similar judgement regarding the Rulekeepor.

CFJ 1547  "Multiple CFJs are not linked unless they are clearly labelled as
           Linked CFJs within the message in which they are submitted."
          4/15  Called by Murphy
          4/15  Assigned to Michael
          Commentary:  Quazie attempted to link three CFJs that e submitted
            in a previous message.


OFFICES
-------

4/3   Speaker Transition occurs.  root becomes Speaker.  Registrar OscarMeyr
        becomes Speaker-Elect.

      Nominations open for Speaker-Elect.  Mode is Open.

      Sherlock nominates emself for Speaker-Elect.

4/4   OscarMeyr declines eir succession to Speaker-Elect.  Rulekeepor Michael
        becomes Speaker-Elect.

      OscarMeyr nominates Quazie for Speaker-Elect.  Quazie declines.

4/11  Sherlock is elected Speaker-Elect.


SHAREHOLDERS
------------

4/5   Goethe receives Two Shares.

      root receives Three Shares.

      Quazie receives One Share.

4/6   Manu receives Two Shares.

      The Library receives One Share.

      Goethe checks One Share out of the Library, and receives it.

      Goethe receives Two Shares.

      Goethe transfers One Share to Quazie.

      Goethe transfers Two Shares to Quazie.

4/8   Quazie transfers One Share to Goethe.

      root transfers Three Shares to OscarMeyr.

4/14  Manu receives One Share.

      Quazie receives One Share.

      The Library receives One Share.

      Quazie checks One Share out of the Library, and receives it.

4/15  Quazie transfers One Share to Kolja.


CARDS
-----

4/3   OscarMeyr plays Enforced Charity (for Pakaran).

      OscarMeyr plays Your Turn (for Pakaran).

4/5   Goethe plays Corporate Bankruptcy.

      Sherlock plays Thieves in the Night (for Sir Toby).

      root playes Thieves in the Night (for Pakaran).

4/6   root plays two Distrib-u-Matics (for Takeover Takeover and April Fool's
        Takeover).

      Manu plays Your Turn (for Goethe).

      Sherlock attempts to play Absolv-o-Matic (for emself), but fails to
        specify the fee.

      Sherlock plays Greedy Bastard (gaining the Albatross of Greed), then
        attempts to play Albatross Flies Away (on that Albatross), but the
        latter fails because e is not Immaculate and does not specify the fee.

      Goethe plays Discard Picking (for Two Shares).

4/7   Sherlock plays Absolv-o-Matic (for emself).

      Sherlock plays Albatross Flies Away (on eir Albatross of Greed).

      Goethe plays Greedy Bastard.

      Goethe plays Thieves in the Night (for Sir Toby).

      Goethe plays Distrib-u-Matic (for absolve-o-mo-matic).

      OscarMeyr plays Charity Brings Happiness (for Sir Toby).

      OscarMeyr plays Thieves in the Night (for Sir Toby).

4/8   Manu plays Thieves in the Night (for Sir Toby).

4/9   Quazie plays Distrib-u-Matic (for Arch Nemesis).

4/12  Murphy plays three Distrib-u-Matics (for Extraordinary Proposals,
        Greed Works, and Hanging Chad).

      Murphy plays Procedure (for Proposal 4707).

      Murphy plays two Charity Brings Happiness cards (for Goethe and Manu).

4/13  OscarMeyr plays Charity Brings Happiness (for Sir Toby).

4/15  Quazie plays three Distrib-u-Matics (for Looting the Dead, POWER TO THE
        PLEBS!, and Death to the Plebeians).


IN OTHER NEWS
-------------

4/2   Secretary Quazie chooses Rule 2017 (Blots) for the Book Club, suggesting
        that they be replaced with albatrosses in some fashion.

4/3   Quazie makes RedKnight quiet.

4/6   Goethe submits and immediately withdraws an Order to draw fewer cards.

      Pakaran is deregistered for Lawlessness.

      Pakaran's Contest lacks an Administrator and is dissolved.

4/8   Quazie orders Goethe to announce that e is a Ninny, and to dance.

4/9   Quazie becomes Ready.

4/11  gazebo_dude deregisters.

      Goethe orders Quazie to vacate eir Orders within 73 hours.

      Quazie orders Goethe to vacate eir Orders within 68 hours.  Per Rule
        1795 (Order Timing), the actual time limit is 72 hours.

4/12  Maud announces eir intent to make Sherlock a Bard.

      Manu creates the Contest "Work of Art", whose contestants submit
        textual additions to The Nomicon and vote whether to accept them.

4/13  Goethe supports making Sherlock a Bard (in the middle of a long unrelated
        sentence, so it may be ineffective).

      President root offers a 2-boon Research Grant for pragmatizing the
        interaction between Cards and Fees.

4/14  Quazie publishes a Notice of Abandonment for Sir Toby.  Registrar
        OscarMeyr confirms and publishes a Notice of Intent to Deregister.

