From ford@jps.net Fri Jun 16 15:14:32 2000
Date: Thu, 15 Jun 2000 23:48:04 -0700
From: Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>
Reply-To: agora-discussion@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
To: agora-business@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
Subject: BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal

      THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
      VOLUME 46, ISSUE 19
      June 15, 2000


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

"Agoran Time" by t - Proposal 4014 failed quorum 6/8
   Agora uses GMT generally, with no daylight savings time.  Days, weeks,
     months, quarters, and years are generally defined, as are periodic
     requirements and relative periods of time.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  GMT is not a "timezone" (which is a
  geographic area), and already has no daylight savings time.  How would
  this interact with Rule 1727's explicit use of GMT+12?  Midnight ought
  to be specified as the beginning of the day.]

"Fix Scores" by t - Proposal 4015 failed quorum 6/8
   Gaining a Patent Title no longer causes a Score increase.
   Passing a Disinterested Proposal no longer causes a Score increase.
   Passing an Interested Proposal used to cause a Score increase of
     (2 * number of AGAINST votes).  It now causes (2 * number of
     AGAINST votes) or (4 * number of AGAINST voters), whichever is
     greater; but any AGAINST votes cast by the submitter of the Proposal
     are ignored for this purpose.

"Oh, what a tangled web..." by Kelly - Proposal 4016 failed quorum 6/8
   To grant or revoke PF status to a medium of communication, the Registrar
     must send eir announcement via a single medium that is a PF both before
     and after the change.  Sending it via one medium that is a PF before
     but not after, and another medium that is a PF after but not before,
     is no longer sufficient.
   The Registrar may, Without Objection, grant or revoke Discussion Forum
     status to a medium.  Any medium that becomes a PF ceases to be a DF.
   Sending a message to a DF is not sending it to the PF, even if each
     Active Player is reasonably certain to receive it via that DF; and
     is not sending it to a given Player, unless the Player explicitly or
     implicitly confirms receipt.

[Curmudgeon's Review - summary:  Would undefine "public" and "publicly",
  which were defined by Proposal 4011, and upon which several Rules now
  rely.  Places no time requirement on confirming receipt of a message
  via a Discussion Forum.]

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Agoran Time" by t
   Agora uses GMT generally, with no daylight savings time.  Days, weeks,
     months, quarters, and years are generally defined, as are periodic
     requirements and relative periods of time.

"Fix Wins" by t - Proposal 4019
   An announcement of a Win must identify all Players eligible to Win
     at that time.

"Property and Democracy" by Kelly - Proposal 4018
   Property is a generalization of Currency.  Units of non-Currency
     Property are distinguishable.
   Transfer Orders are replaced with Notices of Transfer.
   Payment Orders are replaced with Debts.
   Debts may be satisfied or forgiven.
   If a Notice of Transfer claims to be for debt payment, but does not
     correspond to any current debt, then it shall either be retained
     as payment against future debt, or returned (voluntarily or on
     demand).
   One may Order the payment of a debt.  Then Persistent Indebtedness
     occurs every seven days till the debt is paid.  Such an Order shall
     be stayed if the debt is disputed (this can also be done by the CotC
     or a Judge), or vacated if the debt is satisfied by another entity
     (this can also be done by a Judge).
   Property owned by an Executor-less entity is Abandoned.  The Notary
     is a Limited Executor of such an entity, and may use its Property
     to pay its debts; forgive debts owed to it; and (Without Objection)
     transfer its Property to the Bank.
   The Bank is a single entity.  The Treasuror is Executor of the
     Bank.  Each Bank Currency's Recordkeepor is a Limited Executor of
     the Bank, and may access only that Currency.
   The Treasuror may forgive debts owed to the Bank when Ordered to do so,
     or Without Objection.
   Ideal Indulgence Circulation Level (IICL) = # Players + # Player Blots.
   Actual Indulgence Circulation Level (AICL) = # Indulgences not owned by
     Bank + # Indulgences auctioned but bids not yet paid.
   Monthly Indulgence Auction for (IICL - AiCL) Indulgences.
   Proposals are Democratic if distributed while there are less than
     three Oligarchs.
   Voting on Ordinary Proposals is free.
   A Player may vote on a Proposal once, plus once per Voting Entitlement
     (a new Currency), minus once per five Blots; minimum 0, maximum 5.
   A non-Player may vote on a Proposal once per Voting Entitlement,
     maximum 3.  However, the Bank may not vote on any Proposal.
   Ideal VE Circulation Level (IVECL) = # Players.
   Actual VE Circulation Level (AVECL) = # VEs not owned by Bank + # VEs
     auctioned but bids not yet paid.
   VE Auction for (IVECL - AVECL) VEs whenever this is positive.  Bids
     in VTs.
   A High Oligarch may retain no VEs, a Middle Oligarch one, and a Low
     Oligarch two.  Possessing more VEs than this for 5 days continuously
     causes loss of Oligarch position.

"Taral's Work for All, Again" by Elysion - Proposal 4017
   Players may Nominate for Office, regardless of eir Blots.

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"Cleanup of Dismissals" by Murphy
   Dismissing a CFJ is replaced with Judging DISMISSED.
   A Judge may always Judge DISMISSED, but such a Judgement may be
     overturned for the usual (lack of) reasons.

"Dependent Actions by Application" by Murphy
   Applications have Objections as well as Signatures.
   Dependent Actions are performed by executing an Application, which
     must bear a certain number of Signatures and/or lack a certain
     number of Objections.

"Fix Legality of Dismissals" by Murphy
   Any dismissal of a CFJ occurs upon informing the CotC, but may be
     found illegal for the usual (lack of) reasons.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1219 "CFJ 1217 was not Dismissed."
[FALSE]  5/22      Called by Wes
          5/22      Assigned to Steve, who Judges FALSE
          5/23-24   Appealed by Wes and lee
          6/2       Appealed by Murphy
          6/2       Appeal improperly assigned to Sherlock, Crito, and Peekee
          6/5-6/11  Appeal properly assigned to lee, Taral, and harvel; lee
                      moves to reassign; Taral and harvel move to sustain
          Caller's argument (summary):  Kelly attempted to dismiss CFJ 1217
            under Rule 1565 vi), but vi) is not actually true.  Rule 1565
            says that the dismissal is thus not legal, and does not occur
            (because the CotC was not notified of a legal dismissal).
          Why 1565 vi) is not true:  Kelly stated that the truth of CFJ 1217's
            statement changes over time, but Rule 451 gives import only to the
            truth at the time the CFJ was called.  A reasonable effort to
            determine this for CFJ 1217 would consist simply of getting the
            current Assessor's answer to "do you understand TYHJÄ as an
            obvious synonym for one of FOR, AGAINST or ABSTAIN?".
          Judge's refutation (summary):  A Judgement not in accordance with
            the Rules is still a Judgement.
          Counterargument:  Dismissal is not a Judgement.  Rule 1565 may
            place a technical requirement on dismissal that has no analogue
            applying to Judgements.  Does Kelly's belief in the truth of 1565
            vi) count toward dismissing it "for the reasons listed in this
            Rule [1565]"?
          Counter-counterargument:  Kelly's belief in 1565 vi), even though
            arrived at by incorrect logic, was still eir reason for dismissal.

CFJ 1224 "Elysion's message of 11 April 2000, reading in part, 'The Bank pays
[TRUE]    all its outstanding IAT POs (50 to Michael and 75 to Chuck)', did not
Appealed  have the effect of executing a Transfer Order which would satisfy the
           Payment Order executed by lee in eir message dated 11 March 2000,
           reading in part, 'I order the Bank to pay Murphy 130 IATs.'"
          5/26      Called by Kelly
          5/29-6/8  Assigned to Sherlock, who defaults
          6/9       Assigned to Chuck
          6/15      Appealed by Wes, Crito, and Steve
          Caller's argument (summary):  Due to a mail server glitch, lee's 
message
            was not generally distributed till May 23.  The falsity of this CFJ
            would imply that Elysion paid a Transfer Order without knowing that
            it existed.
          Judge's clarification (summary):  The Payment Order sent on March 11
            was not executed till May 23, when it was received by its intended
            recipient.
          Counterargument (summary):  The Payment Order was an Administrative
            Order, and Rule 1808 explicitly states that it is executed and 
takes
            effect when published in the Public Forum.

CFJ 1226 "The Transfer Orders which Peekee issued in the email identified by
[FALSE]   Message-ID: <20000524113533.52162.qmail@hotmail.com> satisfied the
           Stem Payment Orders as mentioned in the same email."
          5/29      Called by Peekee
          5/29-6/4  Assigned to Kelly, who Judges FALSE
          Judge's refutation (summary):  CFJ 1225 found these Transfer Orders
            to be improperly or invalidly executed.

CFJ 1227 "A Low Oligarch who is entitled to cast any vote at all upon a given
[TRUE]    Ordinary Proposal may cast a vote of ABSTAIN upon that Proposal."
          5/29      Called by Kelly
          5/30-6/3  Assigned to Murphy
          Judge's argument (summary):  Rule 1935 only requires *multiple*
            votes by an Oligarch on an Ordinary Proposal to be all-FOR or
            all-AGAINST.

CFJ 1228 "The Treasuror's Salary is 0.2 times the Basic Officer Salary."
[TRUE]   6/3       Called by Murphy
          6/4-6/10  Assigned to t, who Judges TRUE
          Caller's argument (summary):  lee's Budget change of 5/31 "[set]
            the monthly officer salaries as follows" without explicitly
            mentioning the Treasuror's Salary.  E clearly intended it to
            remain at 0.2 times the BOS; this CFJ is intended to rule out
            the possibility that e accidentally dropped it to zero.

CFJ 1229 "Taral distributed at least one Proposal during the Nomic Week
           beginning May 29, 2000."
          6/14  Called by Taral
          6/14  Assigned to Elysion
          Caller's argument (summary):  E sent it, but its delivery was
            delayed due to a mail server crash.


OFFICES
-------

6/5   harvel announces eir intention not to re-Nominate for Clerk of the 
Courts.

6/7   Michael and t select harvel to become High Oligarch.

6/10  harvel selects Michael to become Middle Oligarch, and initiates an 
Auction
         for two Low Oligarch vacancies.

6/11  Wes is Elected Clerk of the Courts.


OTHER
-----

6/10  Indulgence Auction ends.  Elysion wins 8, Blob wins 3, and Michael
         wins 3, at 50 IATs per Indulgence.

6/13  Novalis joins the Order of the Evil Eye.  Harlequin resigns from it.

6/14  Kelly claims that Promotor Taral committed Promotor Tardiness and
         and Promotor Misrepresentation (for a total of 3.5 Blots), for
         distributing no Proposals one week and too many the next.  See
         CFJ 1229.

       Palnatoke goes On Hold.

6/15  Crito makes emself ineligible to Judge CFJs till further notice.


TRADE OFFERS
------------

Ongoing offers:

Player    Date  Will sell        In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Carnival  9/16  +0.01 VT         1 Denaria
Carnival  9/16  10 Denaria       On a Player's birthday, sing "Happy
                                    Birthday" to em in a key with at
                                    least four sharps
OotEE     9/13  1 Iris           1 VT; non-members subject to 9% Tariff
Wes       4/5   1 Twig           Commenting on and changing a proto
Wes       4/5   ad space         1 Twig per 30 days

Recent one-time offers:

Player    Date  Will sell        In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Kelly     5/4   Any Basic        Negotiable; e has 170 Stems, no ABC
                   Currency
Murphy    5/6   VTs, P-Notes     IATs; one-to-one basis
Murphy    5/6   33 P-Notes       0.9 Indulgences; directed to t, if
                                    Peekee turns down eir offer
Peekee    5/2   50 VTs or        1 Indulgence
                   P-Notes
t         5/2   0.9 Indulgences  33 P-Notes from Peekee; will not sell
                                    at any price to an Immaculate Player
Taral     5/20  P-Notes          VTs or IATs


ERRATA
------


--
Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>     http://rivendell.fortunecity.com/meridian/309/
           "Most of the time, it seemed sublimely unaware of its limbs,
            though it was beginning to suspect it had hands."
