From ford@jps.net Thu May 18 17:20:37 2000
Date: Thu, 18 May 2000 06:09:50 -0700
From: Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>
Reply-To: agora-discussion@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
To: agora-business@gecko.serc.rmit.edu.au
Subject: BUS: Agoran Weekly Journal

      THE AGORAN WEEKLY JOURNAL
      VOLUME 46, ISSUE 17
      May 17, 2000


ADOPTED PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Blots Hurt" by t - Proposal 4003 adopted 5/7
   Being Blotted is a Win-Preventing Condition.

"Consistent Batch Sizes" by Steve - Proposal 4006 adopted 5/15
   The Batch Size may be from 1 to 4.  (Rule 1839 says 2 to 6 at one point,
     and 1 to 3 at another.)

"Free Oligarchy Votes" by Elysion (Steve?) - Proposal 4001 adopted 5/7
   Votes on Ordinary Proposals have no VT cost.

"Mistakes Happen" by Taral - Proposal 4005 adopted 5/6
   Promotor Misrepresentation is a Class 2 (not 1) Crime, but only occurs
     when the Promotor deliberately distributes a Proposal not in the
     Current Batch.

"Officer Reform" by harvel - Proposal 4002 adopted 5/7
   If an Office's duties include being the Recordkeepor of a Currency, then
     records for that Currency are part of that Office's Report.
   Monthly Reports are defined.
   Various reporting duties are merged into the Rules defining the Offices.

"Simplify 'ASAP'" by Steve - Proposal 4004 adopted 5/7
   ASAP means "within a week".
   Tardiness is a Class 1 (not 2) Infraction.
   Following clauses are deleted from Rule 1023 (now "Definition of 'as soon
     as possible'"):
       * Precedence claim over Rules defining a later cutoff time
       * Explicit allowance for Rules to define an earlier cutoff time
       * Explicit allowance for Rules to define different cutoff times for
           Official Duties and Inactive Players; however, explicit allowance
           is made for Rules to define later cutoff times for Inactive Players

"Transfer Orders May Not Be Vacated" by Taral - Proposal 4008 adopted 5/15
   Repeal Rule 1818 (Vacation of Transfer Orders).

REJECTED PROPOSALS
------------------

"Milder Blot Penalties" by t - Proposal 4007 failed quorum 5/15
   Players with more than 7 (not 5) Blots are Mute.
   Players with more than 6 (not 3) Blots are Denied.
   Players with more than 4 (not 0) Blots cannot Nominate for Office.

PENDING PROPOSALS
-----------------

"Conversion fix fixed" by Taral
   When converting Stems to one's ABC, the amount of the ABC paid out is
     rounded down to an integer multiple of the ABC's MUQ.

"Kinder Blot Penalties" by Taral
   Players must have more than 10 (not 5) Blots to be Mute, and more than
     10 (not 3) Blots to be Denied.

"Mistakes Happen 2" by Taral
   Misappropriation is a Class 15 (not 20) Crime, and only occurs when
     the Executor of a Bank Currency executes (not submits) an improper
     Transfer Order.

"Speaker Delegation" by Taral
   The Speaker may Delegate Offices that e holds temporarily, without the
     usual two-week maximum on the period of Delegation.
   Delegated Offices are not actually held by the Delegating Player.

"Work for All" by Taral - Proposal 4010
   Players may Nominate for Office, regardless of eir Blots.

PROTO-PROPOSALS
---------------

"Agora Reform I: Quarter Indulgence Business Reform" by Elysion
   Quarterly reward to Immaculate Players is 0.5 (not 1) Indulgence.
   Quarterly Zombie upkeep is billed by Registrar (not Herald).

"Bank Currency Minting fix" by Taral
   Rule 1927 (Bank Currency Creation) is amended to explicitly restrict
     the Mintor of a Bank Currency's ability to Mint that Currency.

"Debugging Oligarchy Selection" by Steve
   Oligardiness is committed only by individual Selectors who fail to
     announce eir individual selection.
   A Selectee fills a vacancy as soon as e receives an undefeatable
     plurality of selections, at which time the remaining Selectors
     are no longer required to announce an individual selection.

"Definition of Noisy, Quiet, and Silent" by harvel
   Rule 1042 (Zombification Due to Silence) is re-Titled and streamlined.
   A Player is always exactly one of Noisy, Quiet, or Silent.

"More Fully Baked Oligarchy" by Kelly
   Any Oligarchy vacancies are Auctioned by the Speaker.  All such winners
     start out as Low Oligarchs.
   When selecting a new High Oligarch, the previous High Oligarch is
     ineligible.
   Selections occur immediately and automatically if there is only one
     candidate, or when a majority of selectors is established.
   Oligardiness is committed only by individuals who fail to make an
     individual recommendation.
   If the Speaker must make a selection, e has seven days to do so, or
     else e becomes Tainted.  If the Speakership changes before a
     selection is made, then the new Speaker has seven days to select.

"Oh, what a tangled web..." by Kelly
   To grant or revoke PF status to a medium of communication, the Registrar
     must send eir announcement via a single medium that is a PF both before
     and after the change.  Sending it via one medium that is a PF before
     but not after, and another medium that is a PF after but not before,
     is no longer sufficient.
   The Registrar may, Without Objection, grant or revoke Discussion Forum
     status to a medium.  Any medium that becomes a PF ceases to be a DF.
   Sending a message to a DF is not sending it to the PF, even if each
     Active Player is reasonably certain to receive it via that DF; and
     is not sending it to a given Player, unless the Player explicitly or
     implicitly confirms receipt.

"Property and Democracy" by Kelly
   Property is a generalization of Currency.  Units of non-Currency
     Property are distinguishable.
   Transfer Orders are replaced with Notices of Transfer.
   Payment Orders are replaced with Debts.
   Debts may be satisfied or forgiven.
   If a Notice of Transfer claims to be for debt payment, but does not
     correspond to any current debt, then it shall either be retained
     as payment against future debt, or returned (voluntarily or on
     demand).
   One may Order the payment of a debt.  Then Persistent Indebtedness
     occurs every seven days till the debt is paid.  Such an Order shall
     be stayed if the debt is disputed (this can also be done by the CotC
     or a Judge), or vacated if the debt is satisfied by another entity
     (this can also be done by a Judge).
   Property owned by an Executor-less entity is Abandoned.  The Notary
     is a Limited Executor of such an entity, and may use its Property
     to pay its debts; forgive debts owed to it; and (Without Objection)
     transfer its Property to the Bank.
   The Bank is a single entity.  The Treasuror is Executor of the
     Bank.  Each Bank Currency's Recordkeepor is a Limited Executor of
     the Bank, and may access only that Currency.
   The Treasuror may forgive debts owed to the Bank when Ordered to do so,
     or Without Objection.
   Ideal Indulgence Circulation Level (IICL) = # Players + # Player Blots.
   Actual Indulgence Circulation Level (AICL) = # Indulgences not owned by
     Bank + # Indulgences auctioned but bids not yet paid.
   Monthly Indulgence Auction for (IICL - AiCL) Indulgences.
   Proposals are Democratic if distributed while there are less than
     three Oligarchs.
   Voting on Ordinary Proposals is free.
   A Player may vote on a Proposal once, plus once per Voting Entitlement
     (a new Currency), minus once per five Blots; minimum 0, maximum 5.
   A non-Player may vote on a Proposal once per Voting Entitlement,
     maximum 3.  However, the Bank may not vote on any Proposal.
   Ideal VE Circulation Level (IVECL) = # Players.
   Actual VE Circulation Level (AVECL) = # VEs not owned by Bank + # VEs
     auctioned but bids not yet paid.
   VE Auction for (IVECL - AVECL) VEs whenever this is positive.  Bids
     in VTs.
   A High Oligarch may retain no VEs, a Middle Oligarch one, and a Low
     Oligarch two.  Possessing more VEs than this for 5 days continuously
     causes loss of Oligarch position.

"Redefinition of Index" by harvel
   Rule 1271 (Definition of Indices) is re-titled "Definition of Index".
   Indices are values, not Nomic Properties possessing values.

"Terminology" by Wes
   "Fees" are defined.
   Any communication required to be made "publicly" shall be sent to the
     Public Forum.  However, "post" and "distribute" are no longer explicitly
     defined as PF-equivalent.


CALLS FOR JUDGEMENT
-------------------

CFJ 1210 "Kelly is not the nickname of a Player"
[TRUE]   5/1    Called by Palnatoke
          5/1-6  Assigned to Murphy, who Judges TRUE
          Judge's argument (summary):  If "Kelly" was Kelly's nickname in the
            past, then e revoked it upon eir most recent registration (which
            is in no way prevented by the Rules).  E did not implicitly choose
            it as a nickname at any time since then, since e has not intended
            to do so.

CFJ 1212 "Wes became the High Oligarch on Wed, 3 May 2000 12:48:35 +0300."
[TRUE]   5/4    Called by t
Appealed 5/4-7  Assigned to Peekee, who Judges TRUE
          5/7-8  Appealed by Steve, Taral, and Elysion
          5/9    Appeal assigned to lee, Blob, and harvel
          5/13   harvel and lee move to overturn and reassign
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 1937 (Filling Vacancies in the
            Oligarchy) specifies that the Low Oligarchs select a Middle
            Oligarch to become High Oligarch, but does not specify when the
            selection takes effect.  Reasonable possibilities are:
              #1) Wed, 3 May 2000 09:49:12 +0100 - Majority established
              #2) Wed, 3 May 2000 12:48:35 +0300 - All three votes cast
              #3) Thu, 4 May 2000 00:00:00 GMT   - Three-day deadline expires
          Judge's argument (summary):  #2 is correct.

CFJ 1213 "Rule 1927 prevents the Executor of (the Mintor of) a Bank
[DISMISS] Currency from Minting a number of units of that Currency, unless
           e makes an announcement as described in clause a) and specifying
           that e intends to Mint that number of units of that Currency."
          5/6    Called by Murphy
          5/x-9  Assigned to Palnatoke, who dismisses the CFJ
          Judge's argument (summary):  If the action is Dependent, then Rule
            1728 (Dependent Actions) requires the action to be described
            unambiguously.  If the action is not Dependent, then Rule 1728
            imposes no such restriction.  Whether the action is Dependent
            depends on whether the Executor is a Cabinet member; the Statement
            doesn't specify this, so it is undecidable.

CFJ 1214 "If we post to a Public Forum a message in the form "If and only
           if we have not transferred VTs to t in the last 2 days, we
           transfer 10 VTs to t.", and we have indeed made no transfers to
           t in the 2 days previous to sending this message, and if there
           are no general conditions preventing any transfer of 10 VTs
           (such as a lack of funds), then 10 VTs are transferred from us
           to t. If, however, we had transferred VTs to t 4 hours before
           this message reached the Public Forum, then no VTs would be
           transferred as a direct result of this posting."
          5/14  Called by Wes
          5/15  Assigned to Taral
          Caller's argument (summary):  A statement "Iff X, I do Y" is
            equivalent to exactly one of ("I do Y", "").  Which one
            depends on whether or not X is true.

CFJ 1215 "If we post to a Public Forum a message in the form "If and only
           if t is standing up at the time we wrote this message, we
           transfer 10 VTs to t.", and t is indeed standing up at the time
           we wrote the message, and if there are no general conditions
           preventing any transfer of 10 VTs (such as a lack of funds),
           then 10 VTs are transferred from us to t."
          5/14  Called by Wes
          5/15  Assigned to lee
          Caller's argument (summary):  A statement "Iff X, I do Y" is
            equivalent to exactly one of ("I do Y", "").  Which one
            depends on whether or not X is true.

CFJ 1216 "A Player who holds a wage-earning Office at the time Salaries
           are paid out is paid the Salary for that Office, regardless of
           the amount of time e has held that Office."
          5/16  Called by Taral
          5/17  Assigned to Murphy
          Caller's argument (summary):  Rule 1940 requires each (periodic
            compensation required to be paid out) to be paid out by the
            appropriate Officer at the beginning of the month.


OFFICES
-------

5/13  t is Elected Assessor.

       Elysion is Elected Priest and Herald.

5/14  Blob resigns as Notary and Justiciar.  Nominations open for
         these Offices.

5/15  Kelly wins the Low Oligarch auction with a bid of 75 VTs, and
         pays eir bid.

       Steve resigns as Speaker-Elect.  Promotor Taral becomes temporary
         Speaker-Elect.  Nominations open for Speaker-Elect.

       Taral Nominates for Notary.

5/16  Taral Nominates for Justiciar.

       Chuck Nominates for Justiciar and Speaker-Elect.


OTHER
-----

5/8   Accountor Crito announces eir intent to Ratify eir Report of May 8.

5/9   Payroll Clerk lee levies a tax of 50% of all Stems, exempting 200
         Stems per Player.  This does nothing except tax Novalis 7 Stems.

5/12  Promotor Taral changes the Batch Size to 3.  This change will affect
         the week of May 22.

5/15  Steve resigns from The Threat, dissolving it.

       Accountor Crito Ratifies eir Report of May 8.

5/17  Auction for 14 Indulgences ends; they cost 80 IATs each.  4 to t,
         2 to Peekee, 3 to lee, 3 to Crito, and 2 to Steve.


TRADE OFFERS
------------

Ongoing offers:

Player    Date  Will sell        In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Carnival  9/16  +0.01 VT         1 Denaria
Carnival  9/16  10 Denaria       On a Player's birthday, sing "Happy
                                    Birthday" to em in a key with at
                                    least four sharps
OotEE     9/13  1 Iris           1 VT; non-members subject to 9% Tariff
Wes       4/5   1 Twig           Commenting on and changing a proto
Wes       4/5   ad space         1 Twig per 30 days

Recent one-time offers:

Player    Date  Will sell        In return for
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Kelly     5/4   Any Basic        Negotiable; e has 170 Stems, no ABC
                   Currency
Murphy    5/6   VTs, P-Notes     IATs; one-to-one basis
Murphy    5/6   33 P-Notes       0.9 Indulgences; directed to t, if
                                    Peekee turns down eir offer
Peekee    5/2   50 VTs or        1 Indulgence
                   P-Notes
t         5/2   0.9 Indulgences  33 P-Notes from Peekee; will not sell
                                    at any price to an Immaculate Player
Taral     5/4   P-Notes          VTs; directed to Kelly


ERRATA
------


--
Ed Murphy <ford@jps.net>     http://rivendell.fortunecity.com/meridian/309/
           "Most of the time, it seemed sublimely unaware of its limbs,
            though it was beginning to suspect it had hands."
